three two one and we're back what's up
how are you good nice to be back here
when you first came here you were
thinking about running for president now
you're out there we're all in it's
happening yes you nervous no is it weird
no no not a night of it would you feel
like this is like destiny no how does it
feel weird I'm on a mission oh I'm on a
mission
you know there's a lot of issues I think
we're gonna talk about about why I'm
running for president but being out and
connecting with people all across this
country bringing this message really of
ending these wasteful destructive
foreign policies that have been so
costly on the American people for so
long costly on our troops costly on our
veterans ending these wasteful regime
change wars ending this new Cold War and
nuclear arms race and taking the
trillions of dollars that we've been
spending on these programs and that we
will continue to spend if the status quo
is allowed to continue and investing
those dollars back into serving the
people in our communities serving the
people of this country things like
health care education infrastructure
protecting our environment clean water
there's so much that we need to do we've
got limited resources to accomplish that
these are my favorite things that you
talk about my question is always though
why do we spend so much time and money
and it's such a titanic human cost yeah
for these regime-change wars what do you
think is the cause like other than the
obviously if we you have a dictator
that's in place there's an obvious
outcry like saddam hussein post 9/11
other than that what it what is the
reason why we invest so much time and
energy into regime change war so much so
that we've just accepted that this is a
part of our gross economy like if you're
gonna take all the money that the united
states earns and all the money that goes
to taxes we just automatically put a
gigantic chunk of that into investing in
these wars in other countries blindly
why is that most without any kind of
traditional accountability
six to eight trillion dollars is what's
estimated that's been spent since 9/11
alone on these regime-change wars
without even taking into account what
the cost will continue to be to take
care of our veterans those who have gone
and fought in these wars and have come
home dealing with you know visible and
invisible wounds that they'll have to
live with for the rest of their lives
start back you mentioned Saddam Hussein
I don't think it was necessarily an
obvious outcry Saddam Hussein and the
toppling of his regime was done for oil
right it was done for financial reasons
and the architects of that Iraq war sold
it in the guise of hey Saddam Hussein is
working with al-qaeda those terrorists
who attacked us on 9/11 and he's gonna
give them his weapons of mass
destruction both of which turned out to
be false false intelligence and lies
that were sold to the American people
sold to soldiers people like me who
believed what they said you know I
enlisted after 9/11 like so many people
in this country to go after the
terrorists who had attacked us on that
day killing thousands of Americans and
they sold this lie for financial gain
for oil you you look at some of the
architects of that Iraq war guys like
John Bolton who today is president
Trump's National Security Council
director and you look at what's
happening in Venezuela almost the very
same playbook being used or they're
selling this this regime change effort
threatening to use US military force to
go in and topple a regime under the
guise of humanitarianism when in fact
and Bolton has said this on national
television that well we really want to
make sure that American oil companies
are able to go in and access that
oil-rich country in Venezuela so you
think that's why there's so much turmoil
in that country right now the this is
this battle over regime change because
of the fact they want to control the oil
I think the the u.s. coming in and
trying to insert itself into what is
happening in Venezuela is what is what
is the problem so they're doing that
through very very heavy sanctions
they're doing that through various means
and threatening to use our military to
go in and topple the regime there rather
than taking the approach that I would
take as president which is to recognize
that the people of Venezuela like people
in other countries in the world need to
be the ones to determine their
governance and their future just like we
wouldn't want any other country to come
in and threaten to use their military to
topple our
- tell us who should or shouldn't be the
leaders in our country we shouldn't be
doing that in their country there are
serious issues that are causing a lot of
suffering for the Venezuelan people if
we really want to be helpful we should
be a force to help move towards
reconciliation and peace rather than
what this administration is doing which
is throwing fuel on the flames of a
civil war that'll be devastating
devastating when you say move towards
reconciliation abby's how so well you
see there's differences right there's
the people who are with the current
government in Venezuela and there is the
opposition clearly they have differences
on what kind of future what kind of
governance and who should lead that
government going forward rather than
threatening to use the United States
United States coming in and trying to
act once again as the world's police
which by the way throughout history has
not had good results not for the people
in those countries what to speak of the
cost that we the American people pay
rather than saying hey let's let's work
towards peace try to push for diplomacy
and find what are the conditions that
would make some form of reconciliation
going forward is there an argument and I
really don't know the answer this but is
there an argument that these
regime-change wars although terrible we
would be way worse off if those weren't
in place
I think that's an argument that
proponents for regime change wars try to
make but history shows and proves that
the very opposite is true look at Iraq
you can look at Libya you can look at
Syria you can look at Guatemala and
Ecuador you can look at other countries
Iran where in the past we have either
overtly or covertly through the CIA gone
in and toppled leaders of countries or
dictators or regimes and the result has
been more suffering for the people in
those countries their lives have been
made worse off not only in the short
term but in the long term and the cost
once again to the American people has
also taken a toll as we see more and
more of our
and taxpayer dollars going to pay for
these wars these regime change efforts
that are counter to our national
security interest counters the interests
of the American people encounter the
interests of the people in those
countries so is this one of those things
it's just a counterintuitive thing where
you would think that getting rid of
someone like Qaddafi would be a good
idea he's a terrible evil person but
they get rid of them now Libya's a
failed state it's it's horrible what is
happening in Libya as a result of that
as you said watch slave auctions on a
tomb it's insane exactly it's hard to
imagine that an era of YouTube and slave
auctions exist in a place that you know
at least some part of the blame has to
be on us supporting the rebels that win
and then took out Qaddafi like it's not
good to have sea it's one of those
counterintuitive things right we're it's
not good to have an evil person in
control of a country yeah but it's also
not good to kill them I think it rid of
them and then this power vacuum right
yeah it's that it's it's hard to accept
sometimes the reality that there are bad
people in the world there are leaders of
countries who are doing bad things
against their people what the real
question is as we recognize this is the
world that exists in reality not the
world that we wish existed and then the
question is for the leaders of our
country is
what role should the United States play
does it make sense to try to act as the
world's police as we have been for far
too long both as we look at what is in
the best interests of the American
people what's in the best interests of
our national security as well as what
impact will our actions have on the
people in these countries and with Libya
not only do we see strengthen terrorist
groups there are terrorist groups all
over Libya now failed state the Libyan
people are suffering now far more than
they were before but we see the
ramifications of that in countries like
North Korea where again John Bolton and
the Trump administration is talking
about using the Libya model with North
Korea as we work towards this objective
of denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula
one of the leaders in the North Korean
government just said the other day the
United States government is talking
about using the Libya model with North
Korea to get them to get rid of their
nuclear weapons they don't want to end
up like Libya or Iraq where in Libya is
you remember the United States went in
and told Gadhafi hey get rid of your
nuclear weapons program and we're not
going to come after you and he did he
got rid of it and what happened a very
short time later the United States and
other countries went in and took him out
so that action in that decision that
policy is directly undermining our
national security and our efforts to
make us and the world more safe to
denuclearize the Korean Peninsula so
with the argument for regime change Wars
being that would it be that if we didn't
go over there and if we didn't have a
military presence and we didn't make
them fight against us that they would
somehow another gain more power and they
would we would deal with this evil
superpower is this there's this like the
worst case scenario for the pro
interventionalist foreign policy I
wouldn't even I wouldn't even go that
far I mean the the argument that's made
by people who are advocating for these
regime change wars is we've got to do
something to help people who are
suffering that's generally the argument
that's made and they sell this to the
American people knowing that hey we
we have we have good hearts and we want
to help people if we can but what they
fail to do is to tell the truth you know
and be honest about what they are hiding
behind this guise of humanitarianism
right I mean if you look at Saudi Arabia
for example and you look at the kinds of
atrocities that that theocratic
dictatorship is conducting against its
own people decapitating LGBTQ people
persecuting religious minorities being
the biggest propagator of this this most
extreme intolerant ideology of Islam
that is fueling terrorist organizations
like Isis and al-qaeda waging a genocide
'el war in Yemen killing tens of
thousands of people you know that murder
of the journalist in Turkey the list
goes on and on and on yet what are we
hearing from leaders in our government
both Democrats and Republicans Saudi
Arabia is a great ally of the United
States but then you look at what's
happening in Venezuela ready to launch
our military to go in and take out
another dictator ready to go in and
launch our military ready to go and wage
a war against Iran so this is this is
evidence of the hypocrisy that exists
between those who are waging regime
change war in some countries by the way
usually countries that don't have
nuclear weapons and usually countries
where they have some other underlying
interests an ulterior motive which is
not helping the people of those
countries and then when it's convenient
for them countries like Saudi Arabia
sideling up to a country whose
leadership directly and indirectly
supports al-qaeda the very terrorists
who attacked us on 9/11 who we're trying
to defeat your position on Syria is one
that I think people misconstrued why
don't you tell me that's putting it
nicely that's trying to put as nicely as
possible
they've actually said that you are an
Assad supporter I know this is not
correct but is that one of those things
where people just say that in order to
sort of diffuse you to categorize you as
a ridiculous person right off the bat
where no one could take anything else
you say seriously yeah it's it's the
usual tactic of
trying to smear or vilify me and my
campaign and and what I'm advocating for
because they don't want to engage on the
actual issue itself that I'm pointing
out about how devastating and costly
their policies are of continuing to wage
these wasteful regime-change Wars of
choosing to support terrorist groups
like al-qaeda in Syria directly in Syria
because they are the most powerful force
on the ground who's fighting to take out
the regime Assad's government so they're
so focused on toppling this government
in Syria that they're willing to
actually use taxpayer dollars to provide
direct and indirect support to al Qaeda
terrorists in Syria when you think about
how crazy this is it makes me angry I
think it makes most people angry it's
why I introduced legislation called the
stop arming terrorists Act why we would
need to have such legislation as beyond
me but it clearly we do to make it so
that we don't have any taxpayer dollars
going directly to provide any kind of
arms or support or anything to terrorist
groups like Al Qaeda but also to make it
so that we are not providing support
indirectly through countries like Saudi
Arabia who are providing that support to
terrorist groups so what what has been
said of you about Assad and your your
position on Assad that's just been an
outright lie virtually everything I mean
I'll just tell you what happened I went
to Syria to to meet with Syrian people
to hear for myself from them about what
was happening there while there I was
offered the invitation to meet with the
President of Syria and I took it because
I think it's important for us to have
the courage to meet with leaders whether
they be friends or adversaries or
potential adversaries if our focus is on
national security and on peace so I went
and I had that meeting and I asked some
tough questions and heard from him his
perspective on what was happening and
what he was doing in his country and to
the opportunity while there to meet with
religious leaders college students
members of the political opposition
small business owners you know women who
are working to to start their own
business to empower other women shiaa
sunnis Muslims Christians Catholics
people of all different religions it is
because of that and that meeting and my
staunch opposition to regime change wars
in Syria and in other countries that
political opponents and others have
chosen to try to smear me my reputation
and my campaign and to label me as you
said you know she's a supporter of this
dictator well if that's true then anyone
who opposed the Iraq war is a Saddam
Hussein lover
is a lover of dictators and love Saddam
Hussein so if you challenge their logic
you see how shallow it is and there's
really none there and and what's exposed
is their refusal to engage on the facts
and to stand behind why they continue to
put the American people through these
costly regime change Wars and why they
continue to wage these wars that are
causing incredible suffering for people
in different parts of the world you know
and also when you're having these
conversations which are incredibly
incredibly important globally when you
choose to distort people's positions
like this you're not helping anybody
know you're making the whole thing more
confusing yeah so for someone like me is
on the outside excuse me and then has to
watch all this go down I have to go why
why why do you have reasonable people
that make inaccurate statements about
someone because they feel like if you do
not it if you don't refuse a meeting
with Assad there's something wrong with
you right like to not want to be in the
presence of this person yeah yeah I mean
the the there's so much hypocrisy around
this you know a lot of these people are
the same people who applauded President
Obama when he first ran for president in
2008 when he I mean he did he caused
some controversy at that time saying yes
he would meet with the leader of Iran
without preconditions that he would meet
with leaders of other countries in that
pursuit of national security and peace
yeah so why the double standard here
that okay so in order to keep our
country safe in order to achieve peace
we're only gonna meet with our friends
and people who we agree with that's not
how you accomplish that mission that's
not how you accomplish security and
peace it doesn't make sense no it's like
a social media version of running the
world yeah sadly sadly no did you ever
met anyone like Assad before no what was
our line no he was eager to meet he was
eager to be heard frankly does he speak
English very well
really yeah I think he was educated in
Europe a dentist if I'm not mistaken
it's in the maybe he's an eye doctor
it's not in the medical field
hmm and he was you know he was open to
any and all questions that I had both
about what was happening in Syria you
know serious relationship or the lack
thereof with Israel a lot of the turmoil
that we're seeing in different parts of
the Middle East of Sunni versus Shia you
know chemical weapons being used
you know criminal acts being conducted a
whole host of these issues how did how
the Syrian government is dealing with
the the Kurdish population in the
northern part of the country what's
going on in Turkey there was there's a
number of things that you know I asked
it and he answered and and he shared his
view in perspective and and really what
what came out of that was he's he's very
narrowly focused on his country
and doesn't want other countries or
other people coming in and and meddling
in their country and what's what what
they're trying to accomplish which is
actually the same thing that I heard
from his political opposition when I met
with them these are some of the leaders
who who led the protest that that kind
of began this whole conflict in 2011
people who are deeply opposed to the
Syrian government some of whom have been
held in captivity by the Syrian
government and they said there are
constitutional changes we want to make
yes we would like to see Assad removed
from government that they don't want to
see it done through military means or
through other countries coming in and
toppling their government what they want
to see is that change coming from the
people of Syria saying hey this is the
kind of leadership that we want for our
future
I can imagine there's not a single
country on earth that wants us to invade
and take over I mean it just seems like
a bad idea for everybody right Norton or
would we want that to happen to us I
think that's really what's missing here
is you know for so long we've seen this
imperialistic mentality that still
exists in our government where some feel
like hey well we should go and tell this
country who should lead their government
and tell them what kind of policies they
should have but no other country should
dare even attempt to do that to ours
yeah well our position is that we're the
best and we're running this country the
best way and this is the best country
that's ever existed ever has the most
freedoms it's got the most chaos it's
got a lot of things going on it's not
they're not good but overall we we feel
like we're the shining light of the
world yeah maybe that's not accurate you
know maybe it's accurate in a lot of
ways and yeah the problem the problems
begin when we go into other countries
and try to create little mini America
and impose it on the people there
whether they like it or not whether
they're ready for it or not and and we
end up seeing what we're seeing across
the Middle East yeah I think we just
look at the rest of the world and go oh
I wouldn't tolerate that yeah why are
they tolerating that who is that guy why
why does he get the run things they
should kick his ass
that's literally the American
perspective but you know we don't want
to send our sons and daughters over
there to go do that for the do you know
if I put my tinfoil hat we don't we
don't we the American people don't but
this is the problem and this is this is
something that I realized very quickly
during my first deployment to Iraq where
I was seeing firsthand the cost of war
serving in that medical unit every
single day and I I wondered how many
politicians in Washington who voted for
advocated for our champion that war in
Iraq were laying away at and I awake at
night thinking about my brothers and
sisters who were getting killed in
combat who were getting severely when
we're getting blown up by IEDs and I
learned very quickly that they were not
they weren't thinking about the real
cost and the ramifications and the
consequences of their decisions Jamie
who are we talking with the other day
we're trying to say that we think that
if you want to be the commander in chief
that you should probably have served who
was that as a recent podcast
Ct Fletcher yes I believe that it was
him yeah who's a veteran as well that's
one thing that you have over them for
sure is that you understand from
firsthand experience and sacrifice what
it means to actually be in war and then
to be in combat yeah yeah I mean over I
still serve in the Army National Guard
now over over 16 years I've deployed
twice to the Middle East and coupled
with my experience in in Congress
serving over six years on the Foreign
Affairs and the Armed Services
committees working intimately on these
issues related to national security and
our foreign policy meeting with leaders
of different countries in the world it
is these experiences and the
understanding that I've gained from them
that best equipped me to walk in the
door walk into the Oval Office on day
one ready to do the job of president and
most importantly commander-in-chief what
hurdles are you encountering that you
didn't expect you know a lot of what's
happening are things that that that we
kind of did expect you know the the
smear campaigns the the misinformation
campaigns do you think that someone's
doing this on purpose
or do you think this is team mentality
in action where people are supporting a
particular candidate and they look at
you as being competition in that
candidate what do you think I think it's
probably a combination you know I'm I'm
challenging the establishment
challenging the status quo challenging
the foreign policy establishment and
challenging the political establishment
in calling things as I see them calling
it straight and and speaking the truth
whether that be calling out leaders
within my own party or leaders of the
other political party and you know I
think that that strikes fear in a lot of
people who are uncomfortable with it at
a minimum and who are concerned because
when you know we the people rise up and
say hey what's really going on here
we're we're calling out self-serving
politicians in Washington from both
political parties who are putting their
own political interests
or the interests of their party ahead of
the interests of the people or their
putting the interests of you know
whatever greedy corporation in their
lobbyists is writing the biggest checks
to their campaigns ahead of the
interests of the people so the more this
awareness comes out the more people
stand up and speak out and say hey this
is unacceptable
this is unacceptable then it's
threatening that very power base that
they have have thrived and lived off of
for far too long we should talk about
how you're funded - just so people
understand your position yeah so people
powered campaign we know no PAC
contributions no lobbyists contributions
every single dollar that comes to my
campaign for president is coming from
individual people across this country
whether it's a dollar or a thousand
dollars people who are giving whatever
they can and joining this movement
there's a great joke I think it's from
Dennis Miller I hope I'm not misquoting
it but it's he was talking about how
politicians wear patches and their
jackets like NASCAR drivers they're like
what if I put my tinfoil hat on when I
talk about these interventionist foreign
policy Wars and and regime change wars
the the tinfoil hat thinks
military-industrial complex people being
asked or forced into making decisions
that benefit these giant corporations
that makes make weapons and profit off a
war yeah this is the worst-tasting Aereo
and in terms of conspiracy theories the
idea that someone wants war so they can
make money and they don't care if people
die even needlessly this is our number
one conspiracy fear right if you had to
think about of all the things that you
hope are not true about the way the
world works that would probably be
number one well you can take your
tinfoil hat off because the
military-industrial complex is a real
thing this is something that President
Eisenhower talked about which is an
amazing speech amazing speech his last
speech yeah as president you knighted
states of all the things that he could
talk about he chose to focus on the
military-industrial complex
I feel like we should play yes it's like
that clip it's so crazy and most people
have never heard it before and you hear
about the term military-industrial
complex and one thing that has been done
that's really interesting is the word
conspiracy has become a dirty word yeah
and that dirty word or a word that's
it's it's easy to make something silly
by calling it a conspiracy yeah even
though there are times where people
conspire to do things that's right I
mean that's why that word exists right
it's not like people don't make plans to
do things that are illegal yeah of
course they do that's why the FBI is
around yeah
but this is from the National Archives
and this was Eisenhower's speech as he
was leaving office 1961 did not get very
much attention when a new problem was
this guy Jamie you picked up the wrong
version son of a bitch I'm sure there's
an actual version oh yeah here we go so
uh January 17th 1961 back when
everything was black and white the
President of the United States good
evening my fellow Americans we now stand
10 years past the midpoint of a century
that has witnessed four major wars among
great nations while he's looking for the
right clip in the background that's all
it's gonna do what most people don't
know is that his his first draft of that
speech said congressional military
industrial complex
whoa and somewhere between the draft and
the speech that was delivered he took
out that word congressional
but he was directly connecting those
dots that some may say oh well that's
just a conspiracy theory but he was
connecting those dots with the influence
that the military-industrial complex has
on leaders in Congress who are making
decisions about how our money is spent
and where our troops are sent off into
battle congressional congressional
military industrial complex Wow
I need extra foil get you a new box it's
crazy how they couldn't keep the camera
steady back then either good evening my
fellow Americans here's a vital element
is keeping the peace is our military
establishment our arms must be mighty
ready for instant action so that no
potential aggressor may be tempted to
risk his own destruction
our military organization today bears
little relation to that known of any of
my predecessors in peacetime or indeed
by the fighting men of World War two or
Korea until the latest of our world
conflicts the United States had no
armaments industry American makers of
plowshares could with time and as
required make swords as well but we can
no longer risk emergency improvisation
of national defense we have been
compelled to create a permanent
armaments industry of vast proportions
added to this three and a half million
men and women are directly engaged in
the defense establishment we annually
spend on military security alone more
than the net income of all United States
cooperation corporations now this
conjunction of an immense military
establishment and a large arms industry
is new in the American experience the
total influence economic political even
spiritual is felt in every city every
state house every office of the federal
government we recognize the
imperative mean for this development yet
we must not fail to comprehend its grave
implications our toil resources and
livelihood are all involved so is the
very structure of our society in the
council's of government we must guard
against the acquisition of unwarranted
influence whether sought or unsought by
the military-industrial complex the
potential for the disastrous rise of
misplaced power exists and will persist
we must never let the weight of this
combination endanger our liberties or
democratic processes okay we should take
nothing for granted we listen to the
rest of speech if you want to online but
it's very chilling yes because this is
the sitting president leaving office and
this is what he wants to tell people and
a soldier yes he's a guy who had
military experience he's a guy who saw
firsthand wearing the uniform and then
serving his commander-in-chief and this
was his final warning to the nation the
military companies are like most
companies they always want to grow
companies seek infinite growth they
constantly seek their better quarters
every year they want to make more money
than they did last year that's what
they're doing they're in the business of
making money they're not just in the
business of creating things they they're
creating things for a profit that's a
and they're gonna have a little wiggle
room especially with politicians with
politicians that are in their pocket and
they've spent millions of dollars
helping them along the way and you know
they're gonna they're gonna help each
other yeah and this long history of
helping each other that's right that's I
mean you you you see that very directly
through contributions that are being
made to politicians by different defense
contractors and the corresponding votes
that are then taken but you also see
this corruption that's happening before
our very eyes happening within places
like the Pentagon where you either have
people in uniform or civilians who are
working in contracting for example in
the Pentagon laying the groundwork for
writing up these contracts major
multi-billion dollar contra
with these big defense contractors and
then lay down the uniform or you retire
from service either as a civilian or in
the military and then you turn around
leave that door and walk into another
door working for the very same
contractor that you just wrote the
contract for yeah this is happening this
is what this is what we need to change
and we're talking about both campaign
finance reform but also reforming this
kind of corruption in this revolving
door that's happening in different parts
of our government you see happening in
Wall Street - yes SEC regulators people
are supposed to be regulating Wall
Street are coming from Wall Street and
then going back to Wall Street to work
for the very same companies that they
were supposedly just charged to regulate
this is a big problem that we've gotta
fix here's a fantastic documentary on
that called inside job do you see it
yeah it's amazing yeah you see when he's
confronting these guys who are
professors who then go and take these
jobs and make millions of dollars with
the very regulations that they helped
put into place that's right and it's
happening with foreign policy as well
when you look at who who are the main
people who go and testify in front of
Congress coming from think tanks very
well-known think tanks global think
tanks that specialize in foreign policy
they don't have a placard on on their
desk when they're testifying before
Congress saying we receive funding from
Saudi Arabia from Qatar from the United
Arab Emirates from all these different
countries who are spending a lot of
money funding these think takes that
then come forward and push policies or
push ideas to leaders in Congress that
not coincidentally benefit the countries
that are funding them what
what could be done to stop that other
than someone like you getting into power
well and what could you do once you get
in there I think I think to two things I
mean obviously as president and
commander-in-chief you set the tone for
the kind of leadership that we have in
this country that will put Service Above
Self and that this is what what I will
bring as president bring those soldiers
values of putting Service Above Self
putting service to the American people
in your country first and foremost ahead
of everything else ahead of the
interests of a political party or a
corporation or or a foreign country for
that matter and work to pass legislation
in Congress that would close these
revolving doors that would require this
transparency when you're talking about
who is funding who and where is this
money coming from I think members of
Congress should not be taking PAC
contributions should be relying solely
on contributions from people in this
country so they know exactly who is
funding their campaigns that really
seems like a no-brainer yeah that one
seems like a no-brainer
and it's really one that what the people
want it's something that that's starting
to happen organically as more and more
people are calling for this kind of
reform and saying hey look if you want
my vote then I expect you to not accept
those contributions and to run a
people-powered campaign how many people
are doing that besides you there's a
couple who are running for president
there is a slowly growing number of
people who have run for and got gotten
elected to Congress but look it's it's
it's in the margins compared to where we
need to be now one thing that exists now
that really didn't exist when Obama was
running for president is the impact of
social media it's just tenfold what it
used to be but with that also comes this
reality that we're living in right now
where there's only a few companies that
are controlling the discourse in this
country yeah I mean you really have
essentially a Facebook Google YouTube
Twitter and Facebook owns Instagram
that's right and there's you know a
couple other small ones but that's the
bulk of our discourse yeah what concern
do you have about these private
companies
trolling the vast majority of
communication between people and social
media it's extremely dangerous it's
extremely dangerous when you think about
it and there's a few things there's gosh
with Facebook and Google for that matter
you know they they can set their
algorithms Mark Zuckerberg with Facebook
and set his algorithm to control what
information is coming across our
newsfeed in Facebook what are the
stories that we're seeing Instagram same
thing with Google they can control when
you punch in something what are the
first stories that you're gonna see on
the first page that pops up when you
think about that kind of power of
influence that it has on the American
people literally being held within the
hands of a couple of people unchecked
and without oversight or transparency
it's incredibly dangerous let's talk
about free speech there's just been news
recently about Facebook banning certain
individuals from having Facebook
accounts because of their speech they
disagree with the speech that they're
they're using are the things that
they're talking about ideas that they're
pushing forward unchecked First
Amendment rights going completely out
the window and your argument is they
don't apply because it's a private
company right yes but they're trying to
get the best of both worlds the fact
that that you know they're claiming to
say hey this is a free space for open
communication for everyone right well at
the same time going and saying actually
you know what Joe I don't like what
you're saying about this so we're gonna
ban you and whoever your friends are
from from this conversation I think
that's that's a big problem it
undermines it undermines our First
Amendment rights when you look at
privacy the privacy concerns of all the
information that they're collecting in
Facebook from us all the information
that they're collecting from us with
Google and how they're monetizing that
and selling or sharing that information
with other people with really without
our our knowledge or agreement that's
the part right the the agreement that
most people didn't understand that your
data is a
huge commodity that's right and we
signed up for these things and who reads
terms of service agreements have you
ever read one yeah I've never read one
of them I just say you okay yeah I
started get through like the first two
paragraphs like okay I hope it's not
ugly
nothing terrible in there you know what
I think back to there is a South Park
episode that that is specifically about
the terms and conditions and I watched
it a long time ago every time I see one
of those things pop up sign in terms
things I'm like oh man yeah that was
Cartman right yes but there's there's
the thing that they're doing there's a
couple things are doing but one of the
things they're doing with this with your
data they find out what you're
interested in they find out what you're
interested in engaging on yeah and for
many people that's outrage so for many
people it's the things that piss you off
the most like if you have a real problem
with Catholic priests getting away with
having sex with little boys you will
think that that's happening every minute
of every day all across the world
because it's going to be in your
newsfeed constantly because they know
that's what makes you engage right so
your algorithm the algorithm is your
your feet is gonna be very different
than my feet yeah because I engage on
different things than you do yeah and
the problem with that is even if they're
not calculating if it's not on purpose
they're not trying to get people
outraged it's not only they're trying to
rabble-rouser but what they are doing is
they because they have an ad-supported
model they gravitate towards the the
outrageous because that's what people
get excited about and that's what people
make multiple posts about and that's how
they make the revenue I think it's a bad
ad model it's an app an ad model that
inadvertently supports outrage yeah and
it makes people think the word advice
yeah and this the the the tribal
boundaries that between the two sides
yeah on these issues are more tense and
you would think that discourse and the
ability to freely communicate would kind
of open that up and people would kind of
understand each other better but it's
not happening it's like think Twitter is
a garbage fire all day long it's just
fire yeah like you can't post anything
about anything and there's people just
jumping on people and yeah it's it's a
crazy thing that has happened
that we gravitate towards the outrageous
yeah I don't think that should be
rewarded financially I think that's not
if this is just what people go to
organically that's one thing but when
you're cultivating feeds so the or at
least your algorithm is cultivating
feeds so that people get pissed off
you're making the country a shittier
place yeah like you're literally like
making things worse yeah yeah I mean
this is one of the reasons why I think a
couple of things should happen and and I
think his name is Chris Hughes who
co-founded Facebook with Zuckerberg saw
that yeah you see his article yes
calling for Facebook to be broken up yes
and which is crazy ya hear about the
person who founded it and he's saying
this is out of control and that's the
point right now is is seeing how
powerful as you said guys like Mark
Zuckerberg have become and and how out
of control things are well some of it
just doesn't make sense like here's one
they just banned Alex Jones yeah not
only did they ban Alex Jones but you
can't talk about Alex Jones if you wrote
Alex Jones might be nuts but damn is he
cute if you wrote that it would you
would get a message that says only you
can see this message this message is
stopped at the border from entering into
the Facebook universe like what that's
crazy you can't just like what if you
want to say something funny
ya can't say something funny no you can
only say something if you're criticizing
him right this is what they've said so
they're telling you how to think which
is fucking insane it isn't because
that's not just free spit that's not
just like a violation of free speech
you're literally directing speech yeah
like that's insane yeah so you're you're
you're not even blocking people from
doing something hateful or evil you're
blocking people from saying something
that you disagree with that's right
which is people have sent me messages
that said god bless alex jones and they
say ye ike you could only see this
message Facebook sends them a thing
blocking that message Wow that's fuckin
crazy
yeah like the idea that you think you
can do that yeah that is nuts yeah I
mean being able to ban anyone
arbitrarily without any
is violated Terms of Service there you
go what does that mean yeah okay be
specific and how come I mean they've
they took up a bunch of people outright
like Louis Farrakhan was one Alex Jones
Paul Joseph Watson was like what did
that guy ever do I mean people don't
agree with him like I think what's
happening is there was some serious
concern that Facebook was used to
influence the last election in weather
against their knowledge or in a way
where they were negligent about the type
of filtering they use that stops people
from posting propaganda and particularly
stops these things like the IRA the
internet research agency in Russia that
literally creates thousands of profiles
and pages and they'll have a black lives
matter page that's just designed to fuck
with cops and then they'll have a pro
cop page it's just designed to fuck with
black lives matter all they want to do
is create anger and they're doing this
engineering these arguments I mean this
is this is a hundred percent proven fact
Renee de Resta who had been on my
podcast went over the details of how
it's set up and how they do it and the
memes and the memes that they create
like this is an organized effort that
they channeled through Facebook in
particular and then Instagram and a
couple other social media sites you know
what's interesting about Renee she
worked for new knowledge right I do not
think she was a director for new
knowledge they this company new
knowledge that the DNC has tapped as one
of their I don't know disinformation
campaign experts and cyber experts was
the very same company that created false
accounts and pretended to be Russian
BOTS in order to influence a US Senate
election in Alabama yeah I'd heard of
that right so it's something that she
was not a part of but it yeah I don't I
don't know who's a director of research
it says at new knowledge right and
that's but that's post this happening
correct I don't she sent me an email
about it because I questioned her about
after it happened yeah and I don't think
she's full shit
yeah well yeah I've never met her but I
know that that company
is one that is often cited as a
so-called expert and was a company that
was cited to try to smear my campaign as
somehow being a an engine for the
Russians or something like that which
which to me again just points to well
let's look at let's look at the X the
so-called experts that you're citing in
this company new knowledge and the kinds
of actions that they've been taking the
very same ones that they're criticizing
others for doing
it's a dirty world out there it is a
Wild West in the sense that I mean I
think there should be regulation like I
mean I don't think you should be able to
put child porn everywhere I don't think
should be able to Docs people but it's
like where does that border stop yeah
where does that regulation border stop
yeah and I think it's a very good
question do you think that these social
media platforms whether it's Google or
Twitter or whatever Facebook do you
think that they should be treated as a
public utility where everyone
essentially has the right to use them
you have the right to use water you
don't have the right to take a hose and
smash your neighbors window and flood
his house that's right I do I do think
that they should be regulated like that
and they should be subject to the very
same antitrust laws that have been used
to make sure that we don't have other
monopolies in other industries or in
other areas to to to break them up and I
think that was something that that Chris
used outlined in his article the furry
first step that could be taken is just
to say hey you've got a you've got it
Facebook needs to let go of Instagram
and whatsapp because that was some
thought that acquisition created an even
stronger monopoly that really shouldn't
have been allowed to take place in the
beginning and so there are there are
concerns about the kind of power being
you know consolidated into the hands of
a very few people as well as how that's
impacting any kind of competition and
squashing that competition from coming
up and saying hey you know you've got
Facebook and then you've got this other
new technical media technology they've
got better privacy standards and better
service for the consumer than Facebook
but
time that that tries to happen you know
they're quickly squashed by companies
like Facebook or Google for that or
bought up or bought up exactly yeah
that's that's that's the big concern
said there's just not enough variety and
there's also big concern that I have a
big concern that there's a bunch of
people that don't seem to understand the
consequences of what they're calling
deep platforming people
it's basically censoring people taking
people out of the public discussion and
when when you do that and you create a
bubble or you create a one-party leaning
institution one party leaning
conglomeration of human beings you're
gonna develop some real anger on the
other side yeah and it does the opposite
of what you want it to do what you
wanted to do is make the world a better
place let's take some of these angry
voices out of the mix and let's make the
world a better place it just makes them
more anger and encourage encourage
discourse encourage these kinds of
conversations where you can you can
engage with people who might have a
different view on an issue or might have
a different experience that they bring
to the conversation and to do so that
actually helps increase the knowledge
and understanding that we have yeah I
think we have to reward civil discourse
as well I think we have to be kinder to
each other we have to we have to be more
upset at people that are acting like
shitheads online for no reason like
you're just you think that it's just
online but it what it is is
communication yeah and if you're
interested in shitty communication
online you're just a shitty communicator
okay all this calling it being a troll
and that's different thing all these
different labels that people put on to
make it cuter and whitewash it it's not
good it's not good for anybody yeah and
if people could figure out how to be
less angry in their online lives and and
communicate about issues I think we'd
find that we meet more in the middle
than we think we do I think there's also
a problem that people have where they
become married to their ideas and they
dig their heels in and they support
their ideology and they're very rigid
about it yeah and that is only
strengthened when you silence people
yeah
it's it does the opposite of what you're
hoping it's gonna do it makes the world
a worse place and makes look if people
are saying things you don't like you
don't have to read that but if you tell
people that no one can read that though
they're gonna go why do you get to
decide and who are you exactly
who are you you were a regular person
how wise are you yeah how many steps
ahead of you played this game that's
right
because I'm looking at this game i'm
looking at civil war yeah I'm looking at
worst case scenario this goes to that
that goes to this this guy attacks that
that guy attacks this they can't talk
anymore you got people fighting in the
streets makes that happens exactly
that's a human characteristics right
that's right and that's that is where
this path ends up this path that we're
on of this this hyper-partisanship no
this extreme divisive nnessee thurr
you're on my tribe or you're on the
other tribe and the arrows are pointed
at each other without any willingness to
once again just let's just have a
conversation let me hear where you're
coming from here where I'm coming from
we can disagree without being
disagreeable we can even have a heated
conversation at a debate and I would see
what you're saying is patriotic yeah
this is patriotic and I think it's
unpatriotic to be partisan yeah because
I think we're supposed to be on a team
together yeah this is supposed to be
Team America right what we do we're
fighting over nonsense and missile
mischaracterizing people's positions
just to suit our own ideas that's right
it's it's foolish it's it's foolish and
as you said it's extremely dangerous and
the American people are the ones who who
ultimately lose in all of this this has
been one of the most frustrating things
that I've seen and experienced
throughout my over six years in Congress
that really started like when I first
went up after I got elected where after
every election happens the new members
of Congress they go and they have what's
called new member orientation and they
give you these books and here's the maps
and here's what your office is and you
know all the all the administrative and
logistical stuff but very quickly I
would say within the first few days you
know where we first come in together as
Democrats and Republicans immediately
okay Democrats go this way Republicans
go this way immediately separated and
what we're told right off the bat is
look this is about
getting wins for our political party and
if you work with the Republican then
that's gonna hurt the party especially
if you work with the Republican that the
Democratic Party is trying to take out
forget the substance of the idea forget
the substance of the bill and this
happens on the opposite side as well
Republicans with Democrats both both
political parties or DIF are guilty of
this where they're really putting the
interests of the political party ahead
of the people who just voted for us to
go and serve them and not just the
Democrats who voted for me but yes there
were the independence and the
Republicans both who voted for me or who
didn't but who I serve as part of my
constituency and you just you continued
I've continued to see this where you
know you'll have a bill that because
it's a Democrat bill Republicans will
vote against it substance aside or
Republican bill Democrats vote against
it just because it's a Republican bill
but then hey if if they come in and you
know a month or a year later introduced
the same bill or a similar bill but now
because it's a Democratic bill okay
everybody hey let's go let's go and
support this legislation you can you can
imagine why there is so much gridlock in
Washington why nothing really gets done
and ultimately how this divisive nough
sand this hyper partisanship is hurting
the ability for the needs of the
American people to be served when you
talk about people like yourself that are
completely funded by the public and you
have this very logical and objective way
of discussing this gridlock do you think
that the future is in young people like
yourself getting involved in politics
that they they're not connected to this
old world for thirty five forty five
years this world it sounds like this is
just what you do yeah I mean I watched
house of cards I get kind of I get it
sort of what that that seems like chaos
it seems like there's no way to fix that
it's almost like these people have to
stop being politicians they have to be
voted out or die off yeah well I think
it's evident where we see those who are
very entrenched in this this broken
system feel very threatened
by the rise of people powered campaigns
individual contributions coming in and
supplanting the big money that they get
from you know the packs and PACs and
lobbyists and and and there's fear there
because they see their whole world being
disrupted by people like me or others
who are coming in and saying no we're
not buying into any of that and we're
coming in to actually fulfill the
mission that we've been charged with by
those who voted for us to serve the
people all the people of this country
and would you say that which well this
is my position I think that Trump plays
a part of that because I think he was
the first guy to camp that come to come
in
it's basically self-funded or being
funded through his own means and not
listening to the rest of the Republican
Party saying hey I'm gonna take over and
I'm gonna do this my way and then
knowing that he could do that and
knowing that there were so many
Republicans against him and knowing that
there's so many Democrats against him as
well but yet he's still the president
yeah people like Jesus this is a fragile
system if the system is it's what
they've done to acquire power is still
very vulnerable even though they have
this deeply entrenched system of weird
little relationships that it's not good
enough yeah that if the people do rise
up and they decide hey we want to put
Tulsi in as president you're gonna have
a different situation a lot of you
clowns gonna be out of work absolutely I
mean and that's really that that's the
message that we're carrying to to living
rooms and town halls and communities
across the country is Washington
continues to underestimate the power of
the people supposed to work for you
exactly and that's the thing as you know
our founding fathers had this vision for
our country that our government would be
of the people by the people and for the
people and instead what we have is a
government of the rich and powerful by
and for the rich and powerful of the
special interest in corporations by and
for the special interests and
corporations and you know we the people
get left behind and they continue to
talk to us like they're in control yeah
they are one of us and they're supposed
to be public employees they supposed to
be servants that's right of the
they don't talk like that now they talk
like people who are in a position of
power and influence and it's not healthy
it's not a healthy perspective it's it's
evidence of that huge disconnect that is
Washington and the reality of the lives
that we live every day people all across
this country that's always the case
though when people get in control of
things there was metal make it easier
for them make it better for them what
can I do to make this a little easier
another way how can I help write myself
here how can I make sure that when I get
out of office I can do these public
speaking tours and make a quarter
million dollars a pop yeah when I hear
about the money those guys make to just
go and talk yeah what who is paying for
that getting out of it
what are you getting out of that can I
listen I would love to like pretend to
be a banker to put a lizard-skin face
mask on and go sit with those bankers
and listen to one of those conversations
that Hillary Clinton got paid a quarter
million dollars to talk yeah never
released the transcripts what is that
it's some weird sneaky deal then they
make yeah where he Nitti wants to pay
that like go to that in Madison Square
Garden see many tickets yeah right
exactly Bill and Hillary are doing like
a speaking tour thing right now yeah I
am baffled as to who is gonna pay to go
see Bill and Hillary bullshit them
that's right they're doing it together
now right yeah yeah that was so old why
didn't you just come clean you know I I
would love to get that guy and just get
him drunk and put him on the I just like
have him just talk about life no you
only got like a few years left
everything's falling apart in your body
what are your regrets what you do wrong
what could you have done differently
stop all this bullshitting yeah like
what you know we'd have him on your show
I would love to I would love to do
mushrooms with them on the show and do
it in Colorado because it's just yeah
this role of being the person that is in
control of this country has always been
this impossible task and when I see a
person like you who wants to do it I say
listen you have some of the best ideas
and the most healthy perspective that
I've ever heard from any
one that's ever running for president
but why would you want to do that to
yourself those are the two things that I
think oh because it's not for myself and
and it's not to be in control of the
country and the people it's to serve the
people and our country it's a
continuation of this mission that I have
chosen for my life to be of service to
find different ways to do that you know
it started in Hawaii with gathering my
friends as a kid and going in and
picking up trash off the beach on the
weekends and experiencing even then at a
young age that that made me happier then
than anything else then you know going
and playing video games with my friends
or anything like that and that that
mission that that was deeply ingrained
in me further with my service in the
military serving as a soldier where you
know I'm serving alongside people of all
walks of life as you know every race
religion ethnicity orientation
everything every one of us wearing that
same uniform serving that same flag that
represents the American people with that
laser-like focus on putting Service
Above Self and that's what I seek to
bring to the White House to restore
those values of integrity and honor and
respect to make it so that that White
House is a beacon of light for the
American people to know that that White
House belongs to them and represents
them and their interest in their
interests alone does anybody do you mean
even a person like you who's on the
outside do you think anybody truly knows
what it's like to run the country until
they get in there do they can you even
have an idea of what how impossible a
task it is to be in control of the
economy the environment the the
infrastructure the military our position
in the world it seems like the most
insane duty yeah to require someone to
run all those things to be aware of all
those things to be responsible for all
of the successes and all the failures
yeah
it's an awesome responsibility there's
no question about that
and I think it fulfills that
[Music]
that higher that higher that higher
calling that this is not about any kind
of selfish interest this for me is not
about any kind of ambition that I've had
I've never had any kind of thought I
want to be President one day or even I
want to be a member of Congress one day
it's always been about how can i how can
I best be of service and how can I make
a greater impact and that's what I've
seen throughout my time in Congress
where I've served on these committees
I've served on the Foreign Affairs and
Armed Services committees I've been been
calling for and fighting for an end to
these wasteful regime change wars an end
to this new Cold War a nuclear arms race
there is only so much I can do as a
member of Congress to be able to serve
as president and commander-in-chief I
know that I can make that kind of impact
and see change in our policy that keeps
our country safe that moves us closer to
that future of peace and prosperity and
that's where I hope to be able to make a
difference if you become president
excuse me when you become pressure you
go sorryy and you do get to change the
way we spend money and stop spending
money on these regime change wars what
would be the first thing you invested in
in this country and how would you go
about doing it's a good question I think
there's I'd want to give that some
thought because there are a whole host
of challenges that we're facing you know
I mean health care is is among the top
of the list and you know we've talked a
little bit about that the last time I
was here our crumbling infrastructure
continues to be something that's not
only just uncomfortable every time we're
driving over potholes it's actually
threatening people's lives and
well-being I was in Iowa a few weeks ago
and we visited this few communities that
were completely inundated and devastated
by the flooding that took place there
gosh about three three or four weeks ago
now many of them have not been able to
return to their homes
we went and helped out one family we
were tearing down drywall and ripping up
the floors and underneath the wood and
the floors there was still like tons of
water in place and they were talking
about how even with you know the aid
from FEMA and SBA loans that they they
are
willing to put a single dollar back into
rebuilding their homes because they're
hearing from the government and the Army
Corps of Engineers that it may take two
to four years to fix the levees that
broke down and caused that flooding so
why would they go and try to pour their
life savings back into rebuilding their
homes when they could get flooded again
in a year or in two years because we're
not making the kinds of investments in
our infrastructure that we need to make
so there's in education I mean there's a
whole host of issues that I think we
need to look at how we can best provide
the resources that are necessary to
improve those services to the American
people and also look at how how we're
doing business and and fixing the
problems that exist within those
different agencies there's always been a
call to help countries in need in the
world has always been a call for the
United States to step in and you know
and and and do something but yet there's
problems in this country that are that
never changed there's bad communities in
this country that are impoverished in
crime-ridden that have been the same way
for decades there was a former Baltimore
police officer named Michael Wood who
came on my podcast and he was talking to
me about the time when he was in the
Baltimore Police Department they found a
piece of paper that was documenting
various crimes from the 1970s for
someone in one of the years from 1970
something and it was the same exact
crime in this same exact area that they
were having problems with now whether
it's homicide narcotics whatever it was
they were having the exact same issue in
the exact same places and then he
realized like well this is there's no
effort put to change this there's no
there's if you're talking about decades
and decades and decades why wasn't there
money funneled into this community why
isn't there some community centers that
help children why isn't there an
emphasis on better education why isn't
there more police officers or at least
some sort of civilian presence that
helps out people and stop some of this
crime and gives people a better place to
and then fix a lot of this what you're
seeing decade after decade if we want to
make America better the best way to do
that is to fix the weakest parts the
weakest parts of the people that are
born in a shit situation they don't get
a good break they got a bad break
they're born in a crime-ridden
environment and then they have to figure
out how to be a better person while
dealing with all this yeah and then
you've got people that are aloof to this
they're like hey figure it out for
yourself I did yeah I guess if we all
start from the same spot in this crazy
game called life because we don't know
those people are in the worst spot why
can't we fix the worst spot it seems
like we could if we can help Iraq if we
can invade Syria if we can do some of
the things that people either want us to
do or we have done why can't we do that
exactly and that's that's what I often
remind people is that right now today we
spend 4 billion dollars every month in
Afghanistan 4 billion dollars every
month every single month imagine what
could be done with those dollars in
those resources in communities like
Baltimore in communities like Flint
Michigan where people are still being
poisoned by their water where they're
being lied to and cheated by their
leadership where the governor sent in
these inspectors and cleared the water
saying hey everything's fine what he
didn't tell people was that when those
inspectors went in they turned the
faucet and let the water run for five
minutes before they tested it to clean
all the crap out of the pipes and create
this false conclusion that somehow the
water is clean when the people who live
there know that it is still not safe to
drink and for some folks they can't even
take a shower in their own homes and so
that's why you're not going to hear any
other presidential candidates talking
about the cost of war and where our
money is going and how it is counter to
our national security it's making us
less safe it's counter to the interests
of our people and the people in those
countries but this is why I talk about
this everywhere I go because it's
central it's central to our ability to
address these domestic challenges that
we are facing we in this country are
facing in communities across the country
dealing with healthcare affordable
housing there's a homeless crisis in
both urban cities and rural communities
people who are not able to afford to put
a roof over theirs people who are
working full-time maybe one maybe two
jobs even still can't afford to put a
roof over their heads there's serious
issues that we need to address here but
to think that somehow we'll have the
resources to do so without addressing
where trillions of our dollars have been
going now for the last several years is
a lie it's just not true
when you talk about people that are
working full-time jobs and they still
don't have enough money to get by what
could you do to change that I think
there's a we there's not one single
action that can fix that
you know I'm pushing for a living wage I
think it's important that what do you
think that should be it's it's gonna be
different in different places you know
I've I'm a co-sponsor of the
Congressional legislation to raise the
minimum wage to $15 at the federal level
you know there has not been an increase
in the federal minimum wage for a very
long time and I think that's that's a
step that can be taken but you know Los
Angeles is like Hawaii where a $15 an
hour job is not gonna be enough to pay
the rent you got high cost of living so
a living wage is gonna be higher and in
communities like ours than it is in
smaller communities or in West what
would you suggest for Los Angeles $20 an
hour I don't I don't know what the
answer is here it would have to be more
I think so the argument against that
would be that small businesses would go
under or hire less people or that
somehow another it would be bad for
business
I think there's a you know I mean the
cost of living here is higher and so
what we are paying the employees who
work in these industries and these
service jobs has to match that it has to
correlate with that higher cost of
living it cost more to go out to eat
here than it does to go out to eat in a
restaurant in I don't know Alabama for
example so I think we've got a we've got
to recognize people who are doing the
work that correlates with the higher
cost of living that we're seeing already
I'm really looking at the universal
basic income and seeing how that could
be a tool to
help deal with a lot of these
poverty-stricken communities and people
who have been struggling and still
unable to dig themselves out of a hole
there and seeing how that potentially
could replace a lot of the bureaucracy a
lot of the money that we're spending on
bureaucracy and a lot of social welfare
programs perhaps to both save money and
to provide support directly to people
who need it so I think that's an option
that we've got to consider there's it's
it's not simple and so I'm doing the
research and figuring out how exactly
that would work and how exactly we'd pay
for it but we also have to look at
affordable housing I think not accepting
the fact that the high cost of housing
is what it is is is not the solution
there's a lot of money that goes into
our Housing and Urban Development
Department but is it really having the
effect that we needed to have to make it
so that you know whether it's cops or
teachers or firefighters people who are
working these public service jobs are
able to afford to live and live in the
communities where they're working we
were in Malibu yesterday we had a town
hall there yesterday and took a tour
with the mayor City Council members
community leaders around a lot of the
areas that were completely devastated by
the fires and that was one of the things
that they mentioned is that they pointed
out a trailer-park traditionally where a
lot of those first responders live
that's where the workforce in Malibu
have lived in that trailer park and they
said that it's not unheard of that one
of those trailer homes go for a million
bucks a million bucks and you don't even
get to own the land that your trailer
sits on and so this is a real problem
that they're facing is people who are
teaching in that area the firefighters
who are working in that area they're not
able to afford to live in the community
that they serve but how could that be
fixed that's a supply and demand thing
they're zombies I mean you know there's
there's land in the valleys and other
areas but some communities are dealing
with this both in the private sector
there's there's hotels in Hawaii for
example who are recognizing that they
can't attract workers to work in the
hotels because they can't afford to live
near where they work and they're
starting to buy up properties to
actually provide that workforce how
at an affordable cost to be able to
attract those workers some communities
are doing the same thing for for first
responders for firefighters and others
so this is a problem that that a lot of
you know City Council's and local
communities are trying to deal with and
solve but I think it also points to a
bigger problem that we have nationally
that there is just not enough affordable
truly affordable housing for working
people in the country but a place like
Malibu has always been this exclusive
community because there's just not that
much Malibu right it's right next to the
water so it's more valuable yeah like if
is there a way to do anything that would
change that
well this that's what I was asking the
mayor about and that was so that was one
of the things they said that has been
you know people look at Malibu and
they're like well that's where a bunch
of multi-millionaire rich people go and
buy their beach homes yeah but there has
always been you know the the basis of
that community was really founded on
those who worked to build the community
you know middle middle class middle
class people who are increasingly being
pushed out if you're not living in the
home that you know your grandfather your
great-grandfather built then you're not
going to be able to afford to stay there
so you know he we didn't get into the
the details on what they're looking at
but this is something that the City
Council and the mayor are grappling with
now to be able to
attract workers who want to work in the
area but who don't want to have to drive
two hours or three hours just to get to
their place of work yeah I just don't
know how you would ever do that
yeah especially with all those fat cats
living in Malibu it's a crazy place to
live
yeah those houses on the beach or like
ridiculously expensive
yeah and that's where a lot of I mean a
lot of the folks we were talking to
yesterday they live you know up on the
mountain or in the valley or that's a
better spot anyway I think the thing
about being by the beach is people could
just kind of hang out in your back yard
like right there like right where your
bedroom is you be people that are
cooking out yeah four feet away from
your head yeah so much privacy no it's
the beach it's everybody's yeah like
people have tried to kick people off of
it too which gets really strange yeah
there's been a lot of those cases where
they hire private security yeah but it's
like trying to kick someone out of a
park because you decided to have a
picnic that's true man this beaches
everybody exactly as the ocean gotta
stay that way I have a problem with this
is a personal problem with with
municipalities that charge you to go to
the beach crazy so if I have no money in
my pocket you're gonna bar me from going
and putting my feet on the sand and
going for a surf in the ocean it's just
wrong it's wrong it is wrong right I
mean I could see if you had a donation
box to help people clean up the beach
that's all I could say donations yeah
that's all throw some money and I mean
like I'll pay for my parking sure sure
you know don't stop me from coming on
the beach like I'll catch a bus if I
don't have any money I'll get a bus to
the beach poor people's you've gotta
like that's the whole reason we have
these national parks exactly national
wilderness areas it's anybody yeah
anybody can get in there yeah
that's the beautiful thing about one of
the best things about the the system
that we have in place in America yeah is
that there's so much public land yes and
people don't understand that they've
never been to other countries where
that's just not the case everything is
private in many many countries you can't
just go camping can't just take a raft
and go down the river you can't just do
that and and what happens when those
public spaces are are lost it's hard
lost they're lost forever when you pave
over them when you
develop them yeah you know when you're
beaches become trash with pollution and
others like that's it's a treasure it's
a treasure that's lost well we have our
forefathers to thank for their foresight
yeah like Theodore Roosevelt saw this in
advance and met with great resistance
from a lot of big businesses that just
wanted to put apartments up everywhere
and start building factories yeah and we
created this incredible system of public
land in this country that's
unprecedented yeah yeah I mean only
Canada is something that rivals us okay
I guess he was Charlie has got a lot of
public land too but it's just it there's
other countries that have it but it's
amazing what we have here and in terms
of our diversity of scenery and and
where you could go to I mean you could
go to the desert or you could go to
Idaho and you know go see a volcano in
Hawaii yeah well I think you guys have
an advantage I really do and I've said
this about many people that are faced
with incomparable beauty and this
inarguable sense of your perspective and
I think if you're living on a volcano in
the middle of the ocean you're five
hours by plane
yeah I'm anywhere like you guys have a
different vibe you know and I yeah you
know I mean you go to you you you turn
on the news or you talk to politicians
in Washington about okay we've got to
protect our environment and it becomes
like a political talking point but I'm
so grateful to have grown up in Hawaii
and you know that talking point is
actually a way of life mmm like this
connection that we have you know with
nature with Mother Earth is something
that's real and its cultural and it's
passed down from generations and it's
it's actually living out that that's
saying that Mahatma Gandhi had that the
earth provides enough for everyone's
need but not everyone's greed hmm and
what a powerful thing that is and we
think about both how we live our lives
personally in being respectful and being
thoughtful about our impact on other
people and on our planet and then of
course for policy makers who are making
those decisions about how our natural
resources are used stopping them from
being exploited or
polluted or lost for you know short-term
monetary profits or gains there's a
certain thing that happens in Hawaii as
well where people are more accountable
because you can't get away from anybody
that's right somebody's uncle or auntie
is gonna see you and be like jr. what's
going on
I can't drive like a dick yeah yeah I
worked for Senator Akaka who's a u.s.
senator from Hawaii for many decades in
Washington and I worked for him in
Washington for two years between my two
deployments but he was a guy who
embodied that Aloha spirit his wife who
we call auntie Milly she she's she's got
a she's a firecracker she's a little
feisty but even she she's like a you
don't talk stink about anybody in Hawaii
because you never know you might be
related to them but you know it's good
words to live by whether you're related
or not just hey don't talk stink don't
talk trash about somebody show respect
yeah sure that Aloha even if even if
you're different even if you disagree
show that respect that's that's what my
boss did that's the senator Akaka did
and and you know he passed away a couple
years ago but people in Washington still
remember and talk about him
Democrats and Republicans it's just the
kindest human being they've ever known
the problem with people is talking stink
is fun especially when there's nobody
around right it's like a national
pastime in many ways but yeah the the
spreading of bad vibes is discouraged in
an area where you kind of have to know
most of the people around you yeah you
know yeah which I want to give a
shout-out to one of the guys I met
yesterday in Malibu a guy named Keegan
he organized a like I don't know 20 or
25 of his friends and they went and they
just started like fighting fires in
people's houses all on their own
organized like aid stations and food
stations getting generators and they did
incredible work but I told him I was
coming on your show today and he was he
just said that that Joe Rogan and his
show has made such a deal
impact on my life because he went from
somebody who was really triggered was
the word he used by people who were
saying things that he disagreed with and
you inspired him to kind of open his
mind and his eyes and to recognize that
we are stronger and we are better when
we have this kind of respectful
discourse and we're open to hearing from
and trying to understand people who may
have a different view rather than being
triggered and running away in the
opposite direction or reacting in a
negative way so I just wanted to pass
that on because you made a big impact on
him and on a lot of a lot of his friends
and a lot of people in the country and
and that that's having a positive impact
on you know our culture well that's very
nice and shout out to Keegan I
appreciate that
I think that's something we can all
learn how to do and I learned how to do
it yeah it's not something I was
naturally I didn't naturally gravitate
towards having good conversations with
people yeah I was a dickhead when I was
young yes I was fighting all the time
yeah most of what I did was involved
with I was involved martial arts so I
was always involved with competition was
always very intense and I was very
competitive and I wasn't necessarily
that nice you know all the time and when
I examined my life over time I realized
that the things that always felt the
worst were conflicts that were
unnecessary and particularly the things
that I judged myself the most harshly
weren't my mistakes are failures in my
attempts at doing things
it was my misbehaving my my just being a
jerk where it wasn't necessary or having
an opportunity to be nice and not taking
or escalating things where I could have
used diplomacy right and I just learned
over time that a lot of it is the way I
was communicating with people where I
was failing was how I was approaching
their thoughts and that I was
immediately trying to be right rather
than listen to them right and I was
thinking about them differently then I
think about myself
one of the things that happened to me
when I had children it was I started
thinking of people like babies that grew
up I think of everyone like old people
like it freaks me out when I go to the I
was in a casino yesterday I was passed
by this old lady smoking cigarettes
playing bingo or playing whatever the
fuck it is whatever wasted money yes
I'm watching her do this and I'm like
god this is those a baby that was
someone's baby huh now here it is but
barely what happened between Hoonah fuck
nose ratty time hey that's what she
likes to do maybe I'm just an idiot but
my my perspective has radically shifted
and as I've gotten older and then
started this podcast the thing that I
realized was that I needed to get better
at talking to people when I was doing
the podcast I need to get better at
listening and then I needed to have a
less bias
perspectives less biased points of view
and just try to understand what someone
saying and if I disagree disagree and
try to be as nice as possible while also
being accurate about how much something
bothers me yeah but being nice we can do
that we can all be better off that way
ya know and I share a lot about mean
when you get to these like if you want
to look at the left or the right
I share so much in common with so many
people in both the left and the right
that I will almost want to put a graph
down of like what how do you live your
life like are you nice to people or you
are you friendly do you have good
friends you care about do you have
buddies it could call you at 4 o'clock
in the morning say you got to drive two
hours and pick me up and you wouldn't
immediately do it yeah like what what do
you like okay then what's bothering you
what's bothering you in the news what's
bothering you and why do these things
exist and how many of them are bullshit
yeah and for me it was like there was a
lot of them that were bullshit I was
like what am I wasting time and effort
and thinking about what do I care what
people do I don't I don't care I want
you to be nice and that's it yeah and
then it gets down to political and
social issues and it gets down to the
heavy ones things like abortion and war
and you know freedom of religion and
then these these things I think are the
ones where we should all just be
communicating as calmly and as
objectively as possible and we should
discourage this this tribal perspective
discourage this idea of being married to
your own ideas and and trying to win
these arguments yeah which you see in
Congress would you see in political
campaigns which you see in television
news is a fucking dumpster fire every
single time they have the panel with the
three people it's just by I can touch it
it's nonsense yeah thank you for your
time what did you what what waste is
this it's just people shouting over
people you never find out what the fuck
anybody really believes you just hear
they're there they're talking points
blurted and vomited out right and this
asks the news what's actually happening
is
we lost and it's so it's it's so limited
yeah and this is how a lot of us are
getting our view of the world
yeah and I feel like things are changing
I think the world is a different place
than it was even just ten years ago
I think getting said to I think humans
are different I think we just we're not
aware of how much all of this
conversation on all of our analyzing the
world around us has shifted over the
last decade or so people are looking I
feel like people are looking for for the
facts they're looking for more
information they are less likely to just
accept at face value what they're seeing
on TV or what they're hearing which i
think is is a positive thing
and I think I think we do need to look
at the leadership of this country to to
set this culture for civil discourse for
making it making it okay and encouraging
actually those kinds of conversations
and that's where if you look at it you
watch c-span one night when you can't
fall asleep you'll see in the floor of
Congress you've got the Democrats who
are all sitting on one side you've got
the Republicans all sitting on the other
side and unfortunately not often enough
do you see intermingling in conversation
and people go into the other side of the
aisle and actually getting getting to
know people that was something that when
I first got elected I was told look as a
new member of Congress serving in the
minority with Republicans in charge
coming from a small state like Hawaii
you will never get anything done so just
accept just accept that reality that
you're not gonna get anything done wait
several years or whatever but one of the
first things that I did was I got to get
to know people I got to make friends so
I my my mom and dad their small business
owners and they had this macadamia nut
toffee business and so I called home and
I said hey mom can you make 434 boxes of
your toffee for every single member of
Congress all the Democrats all the
Republicans
she's like wow that's a great idea yeah
sure I'd be happy to and then I said oh
I got one more one more request can you
make
a bigger box 435 bigger boxes of toffee
for the staff of every member of
Congress because they're the ones who
make shit happen and she said okay I
said save me a little bit longer but yes
I think that's a great idea so you know
I started writing handwritten notes to
every one of my colleagues introducing
myself and as we started delivering
these little gifts of Aloha to their
offices it was amazing how quickly I saw
while on the House floor casting votes
I'd have republican chairman of powerful
committees making their way across from
the Republican side to the Democratic
side saying thank you so much I really
appreciate it was delicious I need to
get more from you cuz I ate it all I got
to take some home to my wife or my
husband and then saying tell me what's
going on in Hawaii tell me what issues
your constituents are worried about I'm
the chairman of the Transportation
Committee the Agriculture Committee or
whatever it is let me know how we can
work together just that one small
outreach of Aloha open the doors to
these relationships that enabled me to
be able to pass my first piece of
legislation like my first six months as
a member of Congress from a small state
in the minority as a Democrat and it's
because just treating people with
respect treating people with Aloha and
saying yeah we can disagree even on nine
out of ten things but on that tenth
thing like hey let's talk let's get
something done
was that eye-opening for you and did you
at that moment in time realize like hey
I not only can I make an impact here I
can do this the way I want to do it yes
I can be a kind person and reach out and
yeah I mean and I don't have to listen
to these people that are entrenched
exactly it directly disproved what we
were told in those first days as new
members of Congress in Washington and
further affirmed what I already knew
both from what I learned from Senator
Akaka what I knew from growing up in
Hawaii with the Aloha spirit that this
this ability to transcend all of the
superficial divisive naseeb AIST on
politics like you said or religion or
race or ethnicity or or any of these
other things is what has the power to
bring us together as a country
that's a beautiful thing to hear like
that's it
that's what people want to hear they
want to hear someone who thinks that way
yeah and that like oh we're okay we're
gonna be okay like we can move forward
and be okay and yeah and do this like
like human beings not like politicians
yeah exactly
there's a politician way of talking and
I want you to avoid at all costs I want
you to never do this thing with your
thumb don't do that because someone and
they did that thing with their thumb I
be like hey bro what the fuck's wrong
I'd never realized until I started
watching like myself give speeches on TV
that I do talk a lot with my head that's
fine but just don't do that this one
yeah this it's just as offensive as if
you just started putting up your dukes
like if you started like we're gonna go
out there and like this is yet talking
down like this is a teacher move right I
feel like this is a teacher move in the
military they call it the knife hand
instructors are like come on private
yeah but that's a drill instructor
exactly this is the fucking public
servant yeah like there's no reason ever
put your hand like that this is not a
good move like unless you're trying to
poke somebody in the eye this is the
only reason why you should have your
thumb up like that ya know where that
comes from
that's a Clinton move Clinton I think
was the first guy to do it
really that was his shit he's funny
we're gonna do here he used to have this
thing he would do to stomp yeah would
drive me crazy I'm like this is such a
bizarre thing he doesn't want to be
forceful yeah I just want to have a fist
and he doesn't want to do this just
stick one finger out and that that
de-escalates
who was making fun of that bado guy
what's his name yeah his hand movements
got some wacky hand stuff that he does
you can't be named bado I'm sorry it's
too close to beta just everyone should
have told him that you have one vowel
away from being like the most mocked
thing in society when it comes to males
you can't do that I don't even know if
he's a good guy or not
yeah you can't do that he's a friend of
mine change name homie yeah it's too
late get plastic surgery come back
security number two close yeah and don't
be skateboarding no no what's wrong with
you I know what you're doing is you know
what he's doing or is he just goofing
around pretty sloppy but it's the thing
that people do with like I'm one of you
it's like get out of here with that
William yeah this is I don't know
sometimes like you know I'll post little
little videos that Abraham takes with
his GoPro of us out surfing mm-hm and
sometimes I get that people like oh like
why are you trying to pretend some
things I'm like dude I just love the
ocean I love surfing I want to share
this with everybody yeah it's it's a
simple thing people are funny like that
they don't want you to be fake so any
but they also don't want you to be real
whoo that's true too right yeah that's
true yeah so it's it's I don't know it's
some kind of in-between or something I
don't know well I think there's just
certain people that are malcontent yeah
and you're not gonna you know if you
addressed all the people that are upset
at you all the time you would never get
anything done
right yeah how are you recognizing that
though because you're how old you 30 you
know you're very young in terms of like
someone who's gonna be President yeah
that's young how old was JFK when he got
elected like 41 yeah 42 olden you
something like that barely oh I'll be 40
when I'm sworn and sworn in his brother
write it right around there
okay but like I say when but exactly
confidence look look at look at Donald
Trump though right so what he's in his
mid-70s right but his maturity is of an
adolescent he's cast he's he should have
been a comedian I'm telling you the guy
would have been killing it yeah comic
instead of a real estate developer yeah
that's true yeah he's very but my point
is maturity maturity matters yes
experience matters and that the
experience that I bring is is different
from any other candidate who's running
for
serving as a soldier for 16 years of
serving in Congress on these on these
committees of importance and national
security
you know I've served the state
legislature and the City Council and
look when you look back we talked about
our founding fathers most of them who
crafted the Constitution and who wrote
the Declaration of Independence were
under the age of 40 many people there
you like 40 bagman still still we're
talking about experience and maturity
here I know you're know you're defending
yourself
I fully support you I think you could be
President 38 I really do I don't think
it's a problem and at 40 for sure you'll
be 24 years older or 24 months older
you're gonna be wiser you'll have it
nailed but we do wonder right like how
when has a person had enough life
experience and what but then again the
question is what is that life experience
is it life experience like you said that
leads you to be an immature
seven-year-old or is it a life
experience of someone who's served in
combat and has been on in Congress for
six years and someone who understands
how this government works and yeah has a
better perspective of human beings yeah
it is it is that experience and it's
what you draw from it and the
conclusions and the judgment and the
kind of leadership that you would
exercise you know you know there were a
lot of folks in 2016 who said Hillary
Clinton was the most experienced
candidate ever to run for president
because of the jobs she had held or the
experience that she had had my problem
was with her judgment and the kinds of
decisions that she would make as
commander-in-chief decisions that would
continue to send people like me and my
brothers and sisters in uniform to
continue to fight in these wasteful
regime-change wars that actually
dishonor the oath that we all take when
we volunteer to serve to serve to
protect and defend our country and the
American people and instead sending us
on these missions that are counter to
that promise that undermine our national
scare that undermine the great sacrifice
that our troops and their families make
so it's that judgment
it's the experience and the judgment
that I believe
we need to look for in the next
commander-in-chief it's what I bring to
the table and it's what I challenge
voters to ask the other candidates and
to to hold them to account on both of
those fronts would they be ready to walk
into that Oval Office on day one and to
serve our country as commander-in-chief
one of the messages that Trump was very
successful in getting out was that he
wanted to drain the swamp that we all
realized that there's just this tangled
web of bureaucracy yeah
and that he did a good job of connecting
Hillary to that bureaucracy and say this
woman is just completely entrenched in
this world she's never gonna get out
she's not even a real person anymore
she's just a professional politician and
he would highlight all the different
things that she did and lied and all
called her crooked Hillary and that just
got stuck what made him one of the
things that made him very attractive to
people said he seemed like a person
didn't seem like a politician I seem
like a person how do you avoid
communicating like a politician when
you're doing this in Mass when you're
communicating with giant groups of
people when you're you're having these
big speeches in these big places now how
do you do it without being how do you do
it and still let people know you're just
a person because that's I think what
people are longing for yeah and what
they don't see in many candidates you
see this act it's like oh he's pretty
good at his act but I see the act yeah I
don't see a person yeah being myself
speaking the truth and standing up for
for what I believe in and why I'm
offering to serve our country I think
there's no really there's no other way
to do it because if I start like okay
how am I going to convey myself as a
real person the only way to do that is
to actually be a real person and who's
speaking truthfully and honestly and
respecting the American people and the
responsibility that I'm asking them to
bestow upon me that mission that I'm
asking them to charge me with
does this you you've said you've always
been drawn to service yeah
does this seem like a calling to you
like what is this feel like to you this
idea that you are going to be the
commander in chief the greatest army the
world has ever known the leader of the
free world in a sense yeah what is it
what does that seem like to you the the
grave responsibility that that job
carries and the seriousness with which I
would bring my experience in my judgment
to fulfilling that job you know this is
I think one of the problems that we have
too often in our politics is that people
self-serving politicians are more
interested in keeping their job or in
getting the next job or you know in
lining their pockets getting ready for
the you know the afterlife or whatever
when they leave their political office
that that somehow is is is defining of
who they are rather than recognizing
that that to be able to serve the people
is a great honor and it's tremendous
responsibility and that's how I approach
serving in you know the local the state
level and at Congress and and how I
approach being able to serve the
American people as president and
commander in chief it is a grave
responsibility and I will never forget
for a single moment who I serve and who
I work for
what is your take on WikiLeaks and
Julian Assange what happened with it
with his arrest and all this stuff that
just went down
I think poses a great threat to our
freedom of the press and to our freedom
of speech we look at what happened under
the previous administration under Obama
you know they were trying to find ways
to go after Assange and WikiLeaks but
ultimately they chose not to seek to
extradite him or charge him because they
recognized what a slippery slope that
begins when you have a government in a
position to levy criminal charges and
consequences against someone who's
publishing information or saying things
that the government doesn't want you to
say the government does sharing
information the government government
doesn't want you to share and so the
fact that the Trump administration has
chosen to ignore that fact to ignore how
important it is that we uphold our
freedoms a freedom of the press and
freedom of speech and go after him
it has a very chilling effect on both
journalists and publishers and you can
look to both those in the traditional
media but also those in new media and
also on on every one of us as American
it was it was a kind of a warning call
saying look what happened to this guy it
could happen to you could happen to any
one of us what's very transparent -
because there's no real compelling crime
for them to be going after him the way
they are there's not one thing that
stands out and the latest one is hacking
and some what's not even hacking it's
conspiracy your conspiracy charges it
doesn't make any sense that they would
spend that much time going after that
guy for those charges yeah it's obvious
and very transparent that there's
another ulterior motive an ulterior
motive is that he leaked a bunch of
things that were incredibly embarrassing
that's right and not only that but I
think it was secretary Pompeo Secretary
of State who said that they wanted to
designate WikiLeaks and Assange as a
foreign intelligence agency
so once you do that then you're talking
about a whole different category so
they're pushing out information once
again that the government didn't want
pushed out and if the government then
says oh well now we're gonna reclassify
you as a foreign intelligence agency
then there's a whole different set of
rules of engagement that apply there
then you're no longer protected under
you know the freedoms that we hold dear
the freedom of the press this is such a
disgusting way of framing things like
you know he's not a foreign intelligence
agent he's he's a guy that got
information and released it to the
general public that the government
wanted to keep private it's really that
simple
yeah Edward Snowden yeah was it similar
similar situation similar situation I
don't think I don't think we you know I
remember the very day that I woke up in
DC I looked at my phone start looking
through the headlines and saw those
headlines about how the NSA was mass
surveilling all of us in collecting our
phone records collecting our cell phone
records and Verizon AT&T t-mobile and I
was I was shocked so that was something
that Snowden uncovered and released
something that I don't know that even as
members of Congress who would have been
aware of so now that we were aware of it
then hey we can take action to to close
those loopholes to change those policies
to protect our civil liberties to
protect our Fourth Amendment
constitutional rights as Americans but
was the NSA gonna disclose that
information voluntarily on their own
absolutely not and we would have had no
idea we would had suspicions but then
again we'd have tinfoil hats on and
there was a gentleman who was who left
the NSA very early on hill was that was
his last name but he was one of the
first ones to discuss this this is post
9/11 when they first started doing it
but Snowden was the guy that really made
it abundantly clear to everybody that
not only are they doing that but they're
also lying about it and even Obama was
tired we're just collecting metadata
yeah metadata no you're not
reading messages you could do anything
exactly this is just not an accurate
assessment of what was going on no and
it was outrageous accountable and you
had I think he was the the director of
the Department of National Intelligence
at that time James clapper who sat
before a committee in the United States
Senate and blatantly lied yeah he was
asked very directly are you collecting
this information and he said no are you
collecting this information on American
citizens and he said no and yet he's
somebody who you see on TV almost every
day as an expert in this country without
any consequence lying to the American
people and I think that if you polled
the American people and you asked us to
vote on it you know I think it would be
a gigantic landslide victory for Edward
Snowden to be exonerated and brought
back to United States we've got this guy
he's in Russia now hiding yeah like it's
crazy that he lives over there and he
can't leave and if he does come over
here they're gonna immediately gonna
lock him up yeah what would you do as
president one thing that I think I want
to answer your question but one thing
that I think speaks to the deign the
dangerous nature of this culture that
we're living in now the Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer had done an
interview on I don't know one of the
major networks and I think he was I
think he was talking about Trump when he
said be careful you don't want to
challenge the intelligence agencies
basically putting out that threat I
don't know if you can pull that exact
quote up but I was shocked when I heard
him say that because it basically makes
out that these intelligence agencies are
their own separate branch of government
and that if any one of us as Americans
or elected leaders in this country dares
to challenge or exercise oversight over
them then we will suffer the
consequences so as president I would
change that culture of leadership that
that leadership starts at the top and
when you have people in positions of
leadership who continue to perpetuate
that culture of unaccountability of
complete disrespect and disregard for
the Constitution of not understanding
that yes we need to keep our country
safe we also need to protect our
constitutional rights this is not a
choice between the two which is so often
how its framed well if you want to
protect us against terrorists you've got
to give up all of your rights as
Americans and your civil liberties and
your privacy's and and just let these
intelligence agencies run run free and
run roughshod over us and so that's the
kind of change in leadership that I'll
bring there's a whole host of policies
that that we can look at for example
with the Patriot Act the Patriot Act is
up for reauthorization in Congress this
year there have been different sections
of it that we have worked to try to
change and reform to make it so that
agencies like the NSA cannot collect our
private information as Americans without
a warrant
but there is far more that has to be
done to undo the damage that that we've
already seen the abuse of our of our
rights and privacy's that we've already
seen did you ever listen to that Kennedy
speech about secret societies Kennedy
had a fantastic speech before he was
assassinated where he was discussing
this very thing and he apparently had
notions of disbanding the CIA and he was
very concerned with the power of people
like J Edgar Hoover course and that this
was all happening while he was president
and he felt like there were people that
were involved in these secret societies
and these secret meetings and that there
was a lot of conspiracy going on and he
thought that the very idea was repugnant
it's a fantastic speech just the
president and the press is what it's
like it's a fantastic speech I'll check
it out
but this has always been the real
concern that people have that when you
give someone the ability to surveil the
general population when you give
something they're going to use some of
that information to aid in their allies
and to work against their enemies yeah
that is administer valid codes and I
mean this is what unfortunately we've
already seen this is what has been
revealed by some of that information you
know that was released by Snowden
and how for example the FISA Court as we
have it now is a secret court that has
been has been abused for that purpose
allowing for that surveillance of
Americans violating our civil liberties
and privacy and that's something that
we've got to fix that whole that whole
FISA Court from top to bottom and how
the different judges to explain we tend
to people it's it's basically it's a
it's a secret court that was appointed I
believe they're created back in the 70s
with the initial objective of providing
oversight over the executive branch mass
surveillance that was happening at that
time or illegal surveillance that was
happening at that time
unfortunately especially since 9/11 now
you have this FISA Court that is both
used to approve surveillance and
surveillance programs on foreign targets
but also on Americans as well the one of
the many problems with this is it's a
secret court where you have a judge and
you have someone representing the
government whether it be one of the
Intel agencies or the DoD or whatever
coming before this court and making
their case to try to get this warrant
approved by the judge there is no
advocate there for the people there is
no civil liberties or privacy advocate
there it's it's a one-sided conversation
and the information being provided by
the government is the only information
that's being given to the judge so this
is one of the big problems there and
we've seen over decades now and
especially since after 9/11 that there
have been very very very few
applications for these surveillance
warrants that have been rejected by the
judges so you know a rubber-stamping of
these applications for warrants is is
really what appears to be happening you
know there's a few different ways that
we're looking at trying to fix this
there are some who are arguing to take
away the FISA Court completely
the concerns about that is that if we do
that then there has to be some other
entity in place to exercise oversight
over the executive branch and not allow
them to conduct this surveillance
you know willy nilly as they please so
it's figuring out exactly what what are
the best reforms to meet that objective
of providing that that oversight making
it so that those warrants are given you
know as needed and making sure that all
of all the information is being
presented and again that that FISA Court
was initially put in place to go after
to get warrants to conduct surveillance
on foreign targets not Americans and
that's been one of the biggest problems
here with a lot of this mass
surveillance is it's collecting our
information as Americans illegally and
unconstitutionally because you can't do
that unless you go through this process
and you actually get a warrant based on
evidence what would you do about Julian
Assange what would you do about Edward
Snowden as far as what would you do when
doing dropping the charge you're
president of the world right now
we're dropping the charges you drop the
charges but yet they're still going
after him for something from Sweden in
Julian Assange's case yeah and so Edward
Snowden would be the only one that you
would be able to write because unless
you would influence the charges that the
Trump administration is having on Julian
the song right exactly and it remains to
be seen whether or not they will push
for extradition there's another charge
that was I think was today Sweden
decided to go after him again for some
sexual thing they had decided to go
after many many years ago Edward Snowden
what he's doing right now is essentially
living day-to-day hold up in Russia yeah
in hiding and the charges against him
stem from again this illegal operation
that he in many ways he's very patriotic
I mean he let us know and it's a great
cause yeah so you would give him pardon
yeah yeah and I think address we've got
to address why he did the things the way
that he did them mm-hmm and you hear the
same thing from Chelsea Manning how
there is not there is not an actual
channel for whistleblowers like them to
bring forward information that exposes
egregious abuses of our constitutional
rights and liberties
[Music]
period there's there was not a channel
for that to happen in a real way and
that's why they ended up taking the path
that they did and suffering the
consequences there's a great Bill Hicks
bit about what happens when you become
president that they they bring you in a
room filled with smoke cigar smoke and
but he's industrialists and they play a
video of the Kennedy assassination from
an angle you never saw before Wow when
they say any any questions and he had
this bit and I thought about this bit
when I thought about Obama because Obama
when he had his hope and change website
when he was running for president one of
the things they addresses whistleblowers
and how much they would provide a
platform for whistleblowers to expose
illegal activity that was still on his
website while he was president and while
Julian Assange was getting arrested and
while this all this was going down and
they wound up taking it down off of the
website once somebody pointed it out
like hey you had this but what happens
when you become president and what do
you think happens and why do these do
you think that there are full of shit
and they're just saying what what we
want to hear so they can get elected or
do you think that there is something
that happens to them once they get into
office do you think that it's possible
that they're given information that
shows the the real threats that the
world has and there's things that the
general public is just not privy to and
these are what influences people's
decisions to go against all the things
that they were saying when they're
running for president yeah look I
haven't been with them and I've been in
those rooms so I won't speak for for for
that which I do not know but what I do
know is this is what happens when you
have people who are elected to serve in
this job as president whose most
important responsibility is
commander-in-chief and they lack the
experience and the understanding to be
able to make the right kinds of
decisions that serve the American people
and end up even those going in with the
best of intentions end up being
very influenced whether it be by the
military-industrial complex or the
foreign policy establishment that as
we've seen over decades has crossed both
political parties both political parties
in these areas often end up making the
very same decisions about continuing
these wasteful regime change wars and
acting as the world's police and
therefore listening to them because they
lack that experience or that backbone
and understanding themselves and then
just continue the status quo
you know Trump was somebody who during
his campaign talked a lot about ending
the stupid wars talked about going after
Saudi Arabia that they're the biggest
supporters of terrorism in the world and
you know what happened now you know in
his administration what he called
draining the swamp he's turned that
swamp into a cesspool you look at the
people he's surrounded himself by some
of the biggest war hawks that our
country has seen guys like john bolton
people like Mike Pompeo people who've
wanted to go to war against Iran for a
very long time people who have been cozy
with Saudi Arabia for a very long time
you see who he's nominating to be
Secretary of Defense longtime defense
Contract career men like over 30 years I
think working for Boeing you see the
kinds of people who he surrounded
himself by and so it's it it doesn't
take a lot to figure out how he has been
influenced by them in continuing these
regime change or this regime change is
still going on in Syria now threatening
regime change in Venezuela threatening
regime change and disruption in Iran and
that's the difference that's the
difference quite bluntly between me and
other people who are running for
president is that experience and
understanding that I bring to be able to
walk into that office to do that job as
commander-in-chief and on day one and to
not succumb to the the establishment
that that I have both felt the effects
of as a soldier as well as seen in
action as a member of Congress I'm going
in with both both eyes wide open and
understanding the situation as it really
is
and most importantly understanding who I
work for
that I work for the American people do
you think when someone like Trump
radically shifts his position he's doing
so because it's been influenced to
change his position because he's been
given more information or do you think
they become compromised when they're on
in office and they I scratch your back
you scratch mine uh I don't know I
imagine that there's probably some of
both mm-hmm but if you're if you don't
have the strength of your convictions
and your understanding about what kinds
of policies actually best serve the
American people then you can see how
easily you'd be swayed and influenced by
others you know you saw Trump's rhetoric
on the campaign trail about Saudi Arabia
against Saudi Arabia against the United
States support for Saudi Arabia calling
them out for what they are and now
refusing to end US military support for
this genocide 'el war in Yemen that
Saudi Arabia is waging that's created
the worst humanitarian crisis of our
generation because he says well he
doesn't want to risk a
multibillion-dollar arms deal with Saudi
Arabia
so you know you can see at least in that
respect what he's really motivated by
that he doesn't he would rather continue
to support the senseless and devastating
deaths of innocent people in Yemen and
using our US military my brothers and
sisters in the military to do that
because he doesn't want to risk an arms
deal with Saudi Arabia theocratic
dictatorship that actually directly
supports terrorist groups like Al Qaeda
it's hard for people to imagine that
that's the case that it's an arms deal
and they want to make sure that this
deal goes through and that it continues
to be financially productive for both
nations well that's a you know this is
Trump's argument he's like well you know
that's American jobs building those
weapons that we're selling to Saudi
Arabia that's what's at risk my
challenge to him and to the American
people is if the best our president can
do to help support the creation of jobs
in this country is to build weapons that
are being dropped on innocent people in
countries like Yemen then we need a new
president
we need a new commander-in-chief it will
actually help serve the best interests
of our people and work towards the
interests of peace peace here at home
and peace abroad yeah the idea that it's
just jobs it's not just jobs I mean
there's consequences to these jobs
talking about universal basic income
earlier and you were saying it in
regards to dealing with impoverished
communities but one of the the big
issues that people think we're going to
need universal basic income for is
automation yeah something that Andrew
yang has built this whole platform on
Elon Musk has talked extensively about
it we are in a situation where there was
an article today about Amazon using
autumn autumn these I forget exactly how
to described it but essentially robots
that are packaging things and automation
is going to start taking over many non
skilled jobs and this is true with the
travel industry with trucking with
moving things shipping that we are going
to see less and less of these unskilled
jobs and we're gonna see millions of
people out of work and that Universal
basic income may be the only way to
bridge that gap between them finding
some sort of viable new source of income
yeah I think that's certainly part of it
I think that's a mean it's a strong
argument we got to figure out how we pay
for it and how it actually a you know
achieves that intended objective but
also look at making that those kinds of
investments in in how do you train a
whole new workforce and in what new
areas so and you're taking people who
are working and you know really tough
tough labor jobs you know you hear all
these stories about people who are
working at Amazon very long hours very
stringent timelines and and so if
they're now being replaced by automation
or robots or whatever it is you know
let's look at our economy and see how we
can you know help train folks for for
jobs that pay more money and and
hopefully help offer a better quality of
life and I think that's overall when we
look at this I think that's that's the
way that we should be addressing this is
not just a job as a job as a job as a
job you know but really looking at the
quality of life of people in this
country that a job does not equal
happiness or fulfillment but really look
you know parents who have a child and
who want to be able to spend some time
at home raising that child or you know
someone who wants to start start a small
business and work out of their home to
be able to hang out with their kids more
or whatever the case may be I think as
we look at this and how we make this
transition in a positive way in this
country we've got to look at it from
this comprehensive approach yeah the
idea of these people that are working in
these fulfillment centers being happy
seems pretty ridiculous they're not
happy they have those jobs as people are
in back-breaking incredibly stressful
positions where if you read the reports
we don't know how accurate their reports
of what the job is like but they
literally run from one place to another
they're timed yeah
and that hath erm brakes yeah yeah time
limits yeah you know this is part of the
problem with
the idea that companies are supposed to
constantly make more and more money yeah
as you get ruthlessly competitive people
looking at the bottom line in every
single aspect of that business and one
of the things that suffers is human
human sacrifice have a satisfaction and
you know their their sacrifice has to be
greater because they they have to find a
way to justify their position in the
company yeah and so they get paid very
little they work very hard yeah and a
company like Amazon paying not only
paying no taxes but I think this is for
the third year in a row yeah and also
getting I think this last year was over
a hundred twenty five million dollar tax
credit that's hilarious Jeff Bezos says
how much I got a hundred fifty billion
dollars and he's gonna give 75 to his
wife and write the whole thing is
ridiculous I mean it's what people who
leaned socialist point to when they talk
about unchecked capitalism without any
sort of regulation that can stop
something like that from happening and
stop workers from being exploited in
that way yes just and people say hey you
don't you don't have to have that job if
you don't you know you don't want that
job don't take it but no one should have
to have that job how about that yeah how
about if if there's a job that makes you
have time bathroom breaks and run from
one place to another you should get paid
a fuckload of money for that job that
job should be something that it it sucks
all day long but dude I make five
thousand dollars a week and people like
what yeah man
eight hours a day if I thought you got a
run yeah but when at the end of you save
up your money man yeah making a lot of
money that way yeah people would go oh
okay yeah and Amazon would still make a
shitload of money yeah if they did it
that way but I was barely making I mean
they're barely making minimum wage it's
crazy I mean so that's where I think you
know is is and looked at this automation
really changing our economy is something
that that I think we're behind the curve
ball on because it's already happening
but let's try to see the opportunity in
that where if robots are going to start
taking over those back-breaking jobs
then let's try to find you know new and
innovative ways for people to work and
to earn a living that's actually
bringing value to them that sounds
awesome
on paper yeah but how would one that's
what we've got to work out and and it's
not I'm not saying like hey there's a
government solution to this and snap
your fingers and it's all done no I mean
this is government has a role at private
sector private business has a role and
we've got a we've got to work together
because this is all of our futures how
you imagined any potential any
possibility any potential solution well
I think there's there's pieces of it
right I mean it's it's making sure that
we close these these loopholes that tax
loopholes that allow companies like
Amazon to get away with paying no taxes
and to get this much money back is it
how do they do that oh gosh I mean our
tax code is so complicated you know it
has to do with the write-offs and how
many years and depreciation and all of
these different things that they plan
for and they exploit in order to pay no
taxes and to get money back in return
it's just so easily it is and and it's
this crony capitalism that's really at
the heart of this problem how how do we
how do they get that kind of sweet deal
when you look at the tax code that's
written you look at the tax bills that
are passed who are the people who are
helping influence and write those bills
they're the big paid lobbyists that
Amazon has in Washington who are saying
hey this is something that we want to
see in there and working with lawmakers
who they're cozy with to get that
legislation in there well this is one of
the things that has come out about Trump
over the last week or two is that he
lost a billion dollars over the course
of X amount of years and that this is
not really accurate but that this is how
he said he basically did he basically
said it's sport it's we said his
description was that it's sport Wow so
essentially he was playing within the
rules no one's accusing him of doing
anything illegal but the way he framed
his taxes the way he it turned out to be
more than a billion dollars worth of
losses
over a period of something like a decade
yeah and you know people like what the
hell is that he's like look that's what
I was trying to tell you he was
basically trying to say look this is
something that I was telling you people
about when I was running for president
that the system is rigged I know because
it was a part of the rigged system and I
paid these people off yeah it is rigged
but how could you get in without getting
assassinated how do you get in and say
hey all you billionaires that are making
all this money you're gonna make less
money now because of Tulsi president
Tulsi is coming in there's a new sheriff
in town yeah Sheriff with an army of
people in this country mobilizing saying
this government was put in place to
serve us to serve the people and as much
money in high paid lobbyists as these
guys have ultimately it is the people of
this country who cast the votes and it's
ultimately the people in this country
who have the power if we choose to use
it if we choose to make sure that our
voices are heard and that that is the
way that we make this change so would
you have to simplify the tax code would
you help things have heavily simplify
the tax code and you know I'm working
with my team we're doing our research to
figure out exactly what that would look
like but I think we do have to simplify
the tax code because it is so many of
these loopholes and massive corporate
deductions that have brought us to the
place where we are today where you know
most folks are not getting any kind of
meaningful deduction most folks
certainly are not getting the kinds of
tax breaks that these corporations are
getting because it's these corporations
are influencing how our tax laws are
written and it's written to benefit them
the ultra rich and the 1% and you know
people who are working very hard every
single day are struggling they're still
struggling just to get by what kind of
dirty tricks do you think they will pull
out against you if you try to fix the
tax code and try to make corporations
accountable and make sure that they have
to pay if they're coming after you now
and you're just making waves and okay
for 2020 and yeah it could be it could
be pretty gross yeah yeah but I just I
don't underestimate the power of people
that's what I tell them you
and they've been playing these dirty
tricks for a long time there is more and
more people I think in this country who
are paying attention and who are calling
him out on it don't underestimate the
power of the people you know what I
think - I think it'd be better for them
like Jeff Bezos you know you fucking
people over not paying taxes bro you and
I'm sure he pays taxes I don't know what
he pays but you know the idea that
Amazon's figured out how to weasel that
out oh yeah that's pastors I mean you
hear stuff like you know Warren Buffett
talks about this about he pays a lower
tax rate than his secretary is the
famous line how is that because he has
look he's figured out all of these holes
in the tax system right that he can
benefit from to pay lower taxes when
most people don't have that ability and
as a business person who's also fairly
ethical you have to be perplexed like
what do I do here do I just do the right
thing and give give more money to
charity yeah and balance it out or do I
just take these cuts where they are and
let everybody know hey look how much
money I pay this is how broken the
system is it's it's wack yeah I mean
like ultimately what you're saying you
know as business owners whether they're
small business owners or these large
corporations I mean look it is these
large multinational corporations that
are exploiting the system and exploiting
the people and represent the worst of
these crony capitalists policies and so
when I talk about changing this culture
of leadership at the top it's bringing
these values of Service Above Self this
has to happen within our government but
we as a society need to encourage
ourselves bringing these values of
service above self to our businesses to
every sector of our community because
just because you run a business and you
make a profit doesn't mean that you
can't be a servant leader and to think
about hey how can I make a positive
impact yes for my employees and for
their families but on on society on our
community on our environment and I think
for the people that are running these
corporations there would be there would
be real value in appreciating the fact
that we're all in this together yeah and
you know you're not gonna live that long
you just don't have that much time
nobody does know 100 years if you're
lucky and you probably if you're running
a corporation you're probably on death's
door you've got kids and you've got kids
who have kids
generations who will live with the
repercussion the decisions that are
being made and the argument is that if
you force them to pay more taxes then
there's gonna be less jobs cuz they're
gonna have to make cuts yeah but that's
that seems like a ridiculous argument to
me it's been made all along it's just
you're used to it that's all it is
you're used to these loopholes you're
used to it so you want to keep them
there and if they take away those
loopholes you're gonna punish other
people because you don't want to be
punished yourself financially that's
what's really going on yeah and you know
and this is coming from me who's a
financial dummy I I don't spend any time
analyzing the financial situation in
this world yeah but I can see that
yeah that's pretty obvious no it's it's
glaringly clear and the impact that it's
having on people is also very clear
people are seeing this and when
automation really kicks into focus and
you know however X many years when
millions and millions of jobs go away
we're gonna be confronted with this new
world and this is what a lot of people
are very concerned with when they talk
about the next couple of decades they're
they're very concerned with automation
and they're very concerned with Auto
artificial intelligence artificial
intelligence and that it's not just
going to take away skilled or unskilled
labor but it's also going to take
skilled labor away there's gonna be no
one answering phones anymore it's all
gonna be computers they're very close to
being able to do that right now where a
computer will have a legitimate
conversation with you and you don't even
know that you're talking to a computer
it's crazy it's crazy are you concerned
with sentient artificial intelligence
and in terms of its military
applications in terms of there's there's
a lot of concern that what we're
experiencing now with particularly you
wouldn't talk about Yemen with drones
yeah with these piloted things that what
you're gonna have is autonomous yep
weapons in the future where you're just
going to be able to literally release
killer robots I'm very concerned about
artificial intelligence and how quickly
this technology is evolving with very
little
oversight or even understanding at the
highest levels of our government about
both what the opportunities are that it
presents and also the very real dangers
of this technology being weaponized and
how quickly that could spiral out of
control what could we do to stop
artificial intelligence from spiraling
Attica spiraling out of control in
particular what could we do to stop
autonomous weapons so what a lot of
people are really concerned with did you
watch that show black mirror mm-hmm it's
a great show it's on Netflix but a lot
of it is dystopian stories about the
future and one of them is called heavy
metal and it's about this woman being
chased by these little intelligent
robots that are trying to kill her
yeah it's terrifying because this is
something that could be implemented in
the battlefield yeah and we could have
if we don't do it first we could have a
situation where our soldiers are in some
sort of a situation facing off against
robots yeah it sounds like a
science-fiction movie but it's not that
far away from reality yeah I think this
is one of those things that of leaders
in the global community have to
recognize that some some kind just just
like with nuclear the nuclear arms race
once you start on this race I mean there
are no winners in a nuclear war
everybody loses in that scenario and I
think there's a similar approach that
needs to be taken to the dangers of
artificial intelligence being weaponized
and coming together as a kind of a
global community to say hey this is
something that indane could potentially
if put in the wrong hands and danger all
of us and find the best approach to deal
with that because my concern is as we
see with so many of these other weapon
systems if it's just one country that's
doing it then you have well my gosh if
everyone else is weaponizing but we're
the only ones who are doing the right
thing then is that creating a situation
where our national security is at risk
or our troops are at risk so I think
it's one of those things that you know
that this world is a small place
and we would have a shared interest with
leaders of other countries in the world
to provide the right kinds of checks and
balances on this technology so that it
doesn't become something that's a danger
to humanity and the real fear would be
that someone would not think that at all
yeah that there would be whatever
country figure out what the country is
it's some country like fuck you we're
gonna do whatever we want we're look you
guys took over this world because of
nuclear power we're gonna take over this
world because of autonomous weapons and
artificial intelligence yeah and we're
gonna design it to go kill Americans
yeah I think that that's why it's
important that we take that we take a
global approach to this you know and
because otherwise I think you do you end
up with that scenario and where you just
you know this race begins and then
there's no way to stop it and it's too
late unlike China the United States has
at least in perception a clear
differentiation between business and
government mhm and one of the concerns
that I want to talk to experts in China
and their electronics and their their
technological innovation is that they're
inexorably connected to the government
yeah some way shape or form and that
it's one of the main reasons that makes
it incredibly difficult to compete with
them on a global marketplace yeah when
you see that this our State Department
has told people to stop using Huawei
devices because Huawei which is the
number-two provider of cell phones in
this world now they're connected to the
Chinese government like how do you take
that what what what do you do about that
situation and that relationship between
your private sector and government in
particular with the competition that
what look when it comes to data we're
very concerned about people sharing data
we've we've done it ourselves we've
Spyder and we've proven through the
Edward Snowden case our government's
doing as well to us we're worried the
Chinese are doing it to us or so we're
saying don't buy Chinese stuff they're
gonna steal your data and steal your
information and steal your your business
secrets yeah what can you do to stop
that what can you do to mitigate what's
already happened
like you know ultimately you can't stop
every single individual with what
they're purchasing I think that you know
you can regulate what is sold here in
the United States I think there's a role
that government can play especially as
we're talking about artificial
intelligence and that kind of technology
again first in understanding it and then
playing being that responsible party to
make sure that what is being developed
is not something that's going to result
in these unintended negative
consequences so obviously our government
isn't you know it doesn't have ownership
over private business in this country
but we still do have sensible
regulations and responsibilities that
government has to play in regulating
what businesses can and can't do what's
interesting to me is this competition
aspect between dealing with essentially
just the private sector here in America
versus the private sector in China
that's combined inexorably with the
military and that they have much more
influence over what gets done and how
things get done what did you pay
attention at all to the State
Department's call for a boycott of
Huawei products mhm what did you think
about that well I understood it you know
I think there is a concern about that
technology being being used to to get
our information you know so that that
can be enforced within the federal
government right so if the State
Department is saying hey the federal
government is not going to purchase any
Huawei produce products or cell phones
or whatever the technology is and
encourage other people in the private
sector to to do the same what people are
worried about over here is that what
they're trying to do is stifle the
development of this gigantic company and
that what they're trying lolly yeah of
Huawei because Huawei went from having a
tiny share of the marketplace about five
years ago to being the number two cell
phone provider in the world next to
Samsung we just surpassed Apple and that
this is a Chinese company and that
because this Chinese company is
connected to the Chinese government the
worry is that there
making ungodly sums of money and it's
enhancing the Chinese government's
ability to perform surveillance or just
to just compete just financially compete
on a global scale
and tech nerds seem to be siding with
Huawei which is interesting to me I've
read a lot of tech blogs from people
that are experts and they say that
there's no evidence that these
cellphones have anything in them or
doing anything but that there has been
some evidence of network devices and
some of these network devices do have
some sort of a third party input or some
building yeah some ability to extract
information that shouldn't be there
that's interesting yeah but this it's
like when you're dealing with a
situation where you're competing with a
country that also controls these
companies that are the biggest cell
phone and electronics providers on the
planet yeah well how do you handle it
like what what is diplomacy with China
like well we can see what's happening
right now with Trump it's it's not
working very well you know you know this
trade war that that frankly president
Trump is escalating I think is really
really dangerous it's having a negative
impact on domestic producers
manufacturers farmers a friend of mine
is a small business owner and he saw the
news this morning about China
retaliating with Trump's escalation I
think with with another increase of
their tariffs and how he's thinking like
my gosh that's gonna impact my small
business I got I don't know probably
less than 15 employees and trying to
figure out how it's going to impact the
pricing and production manufacturing and
everything every step of the way what's
so dangerous about what Trump is doing
with this trade war that he is that he's
escalating is that these trade and
economic wars can very easily turn into
a hot war and we're talking about a
nuclear-armed country in China so while
there are trade differences and issues
that we've got to address with China and
issues with intellectual property and
other things the way that Trump is going
about this I believe is very
irresponsible and dangerous creating a
huge amount of uncertainty for American
business
while increasing tensions with one of
the biggest nuclear powers in the world
that's a scary thought it is and the
ramifications that could lead to a
nuclear war that this trade war could
lead to something military yes yes what
is Trump's argument is his argument
essentially is that China has been
treating us unfairly and that the rates
that we're getting there are there
they're not they're not even yet I mean
Trump is recognizing a problem that
exists that trade imbalance with China
is is a real issue why does that trade
imbalance exist I mean you can point
socially a whole host of issues and
trade policy I don't think it's any one
single incident that has that has
created that imbalance and that you know
I'm in Iowa a lot these days and a lot
of farmers have been struggling with
that and would like to see it fixed a
lot in the tech community would like to
see these issues fixed especially
related to intellectual property but the
way in which Trump is doing it is having
a very negative effect on these American
businesses and jobs that Trump is is
supposedly advocating for both in but
really in the uncertainty that that is
being set where you know it looks like
they're on the brink of a deal just the
other day it looks like hey okay the
United States and China they've been
working through these issues they're on
the brink of a deal and all of a sudden
Trump sends out a tweet saying nope
we're gonna increase these tariffs from
10 percent to 25 percent and now China
is left like okay I thought we were I
thought we were close to working working
things out and now left in a situation
where they have no other recourse but to
retaliate as they did this morning so
you can see quickly how this thing is
spiraling so out of control and
increasing these tensions between our
two countries not being done in a way
that that to me is strategic providing
us with the certainty of that path
forward to reach a specific objective of
correcting this trade imbalance which is
how this whole thing began why do you
think he's doing that why would he make
a deal like that I it's hard to explain
because it doesn't make sense it doesn't
actually serve us and our interest
of our economic interests of meeting
that objective I don't know if he thinks
this is part of his masterful you know
negotiation skills but it's it's got a
very dangerous effect and and the fact
that we have nuclear strategists in this
country who remind us that we are at a
greater risk of nuclear war now than
ever before it's because of these kinds
of things that are increasing tensions
between the United States and China
other things that are increasing the
tensions between the United States and
Russia you know a country that where we
still have nuclear missiles pointed at
each other that can be set off at a
moment's notice literally leaving us as
people with just minutes before a
nuclear holocaust a nuclear disaster
nuclear war and you really think that
this could be set off by these financial
negotiations and by Trump saying
something like that and just changing
his his offer and a tweet if you
threaten a country's economy and their
economic security where does that
logically lead you threaten their
ability to provide for their people you
threaten their ability to provide that
stable environment which China so much
of what they do is just like hey they
look for that stability what else what
other recourse is there other than the
threat of military force and in this
case when you're dealing with two
nuclear-armed countries this is what's
at risk and it's something you know it's
hard for a lot of people to conceive of
like okay my gosh nuclear war really I
mean this is something that you know
back during the the Cold War with the
the you know kids going under their desk
these drills and and you know okay where
do you go find a bunker but this is
something that that's a reality that
we're facing today and it's something
that you know we in Hawaii in January of
last year went through with that missile
alert yeah that was it was it was
terrible fake micellar nuclear weapons
on its way right missile inbound towards
Hawaii seek immediate shelter this is
not a drill that was the message that
was blasted out to over a million phones
all across our state on the radio
scrolling across the television and
people immediately like seek immediate
shelter okay where do I go where do I
take my kids where do I take my family
at college kids sprinting across campus
at the University of Hawaii trying to
find shelter says seek immediate shelter
but the the sick insanity of all of this
is that there there is no shelter there
is no shelter there are no nuclear
bunkers no which which really I mean and
for people in this administration and
politicians who are ratcheting up these
tensions with these nuclear-armed
countries bringing us to this new Cold
War they are not saying okay well
because we're doing this we're gonna
invest not just trillions but hundreds
or thousands of trillions of dollars to
make sure that every single American in
this country has a nuclear bunker within
ten minutes of their home or their place
of work or their or their school because
that's how much time we'd have that's
what we would need in order to deal with
the consequences of the decisions that
they're making and the failed leadership
that they're providing and so this is
this is an issue that I'm raising
awareness about because of what's at
risk I mean this is this is the greatest
threat that we face and it requires
strong leadership to walk us away from
this brink of nuclear war to be able to
to work with other countries based on
cooperation rather than conflict
de-escalate these tensions work out our
differences and and walk us back from
walk us back from the brink stop this
nuclear arms race that's making us in
the world less safe the last thing I
wanted to ask you about was the opioid
crisis yes and what are your thoughts on
it this is an epidemic that is
continuing to ravage the country and we
are not doing enough our government is
not doing enough right now to solve it
and I point to to one very simple thing
that could drastically help those who
are dealing with opioid addiction and
trying to walk down that path towards
recovery and that is ending the federal
probe
marijuana's there has been a correlation
in states that have legalized either
medical use or adult use of cannabis a
direct correlation in a reduction of
opioid addiction as well as opioid
related deaths this is one thing that
Congress can do now to help make
progress in dealing with this opioid
epidemic another thing we've got to put
a lot more resources towards treatment
and on all of the things that need to
happen after that detox that initial
detox with folks who are dealing with
opioid addiction and have lost
everything in their lives then are at
the place where okay well if they have
gotten through that detox now they
they've got no place to live they've got
no place to work they've got no money
and to be able to provide that helping
hand up as they start to put back the
pieces of their life is something that
we as a society need to do better at and
the third thing I'll say is we've got to
go after the culprits responsible for
this when you look at companies like
Purdue Pharma who have intentionally
deceived and lied and cheated the
American people into taking these
opioids saying no you know they're not
risky they're not dangerous don't worry
about it these highly addictive opioids
creating this situation that we are in
they are still not being held
accountable in the way that they need to
this this I think it's the Sackler
family has made tons of money off of
selling these opioids that have ruined
and devastated people's lives our
legislation the opioid accountability
act we introduced in the last Congress
we're gonna be introducing again soon
would provide our federal prosecutors
with the tools they need to hold
companies like Purdue Pharma and others
responsible for this proliferation of
opioids criminally accountable and
another thing that baffles me is this
constant changing of the dosage this
fentanyl and this new thing that's even
more powerful than fentanyl the fact
that they're developing these incredibly
and opioids the FDA has approved I don't
understand right I don't understand why
do you need them right what are they for
they're there tuck their toxic their
fatal and incredibly small doses yeah
and it's not like we don't already have
oxycontin codeine we have all these pain
medications like why are they insisting
on letting these companies patent these
superior and even more lethal versions
of something we already have a problem
with it's exactly right it makes no
sense and I think it speaks to the huge
influence the huge influence that these
pharmaceutical companies have over
regulators and lawmakers both so much of
this comes back to money Joe you say all
the right things I love I love talking
you really great thank you you know it's
a we live in a crazy time you know and
you're a breath of fresh air so thank
you appreciate you and I wish you well
thank you so MUC to you appreciate it
all right folks on the road good luck
take care of
[Music]